The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Travis plays the character Fjord.
Laura plays the character Jester.
Marisha plays the character Beau.
Taliesin plays the character Caduceus.
Sam plays the character Veth.
Liam plays the character Caleb.
Ashley plays the character Yasha.
Khary plays the character Shakäste.
Mark plays the character Cali.
Ashly plays the character Keg.
Sumalee plays the character Nila.
Deborah plays the character Twiggy.
Chris perkins plays the character Spurt.
Mica plays the character Reani.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (cheering)
Matt: Welcome. Thank you for joining us. Before we jump in to tonight's episode, we're going to go ahead and do some quick announcements. First and foremost, our returning sponsor and long-time partner for this campaign's beginning, on into the foreseeable future, hopefully: D&D Beyond. They've been awesome. Sam, do you have a few words you want to say?
Sam: Guys, hi! Sam Riegel, here. It's award season, so tonight I'm going to announce the D&D Beyond Awards. The envelope, please!
Travis: Paper cut.
Sam: Okay, nervous, really nervous. There's nothing in here. Best discount codes for books in the D&D Beyond store? The winner is: beginnings. "Beginnings" is the discount code! Best URL on the entire internet? The winner is: DNDBeyond.com! Best picture--
Laura: This is so stupid.
Sam: La La Land. It's Moonlight. (cheering)
Marisha: Old jokes.
Sam: Best way to build a Blood Hunter? Activate Critical Role content on DNDBeyond.com! Best supporting actor? Sam Riegel. Best job opening at a D&D-related internet company? Front-End Developer. I guess they're looking for a front-end developer. Someone will put a URL somewhere on here.
Matt: At careers.com is where you can go to the Careers tab.
Sam: Thank you, D&D Beyond, for being our official-- What are they calling it?
Laura: Sponsor?
Sam: No, not sponsor. They're the official tool set of Critical Role.
Laura: Oh, that's cool.
Travis: Well done! Is that the first annual--
Sam: The first annual awards show. What should we call them? Not the Oscars. The Critters. No. The Sponsees.
Laura: Ooh, The Sponsees. That's fancy.
Liam: That was strangely manic and desperate.
Marisha: Isn't every awards show, though?
Liam: Did you literally write that in the bathroom six minutes ago?
Sam: For sure.
Matt: I feel like Kendrick Lamar should've won at least two of those, but... Thank you, Sam. Thank you, D&D Beyond. You can find them on DNDbeyond.com. That's DNDbeyond.com. Next up, based on tonight's episode, we'll have next Tuesday, at 7:00PM Pacific Time, here on Twitch and Alpha, Talks Machina, where members of the cast will come, with our fantastic Brian W. Foster, to discuss what transpires tonight. You get to ask questions and submit them, so do so. Asinine Wisdom, next week on Geek & Sundry Twitch, has a special guest. I believe our very own Sam Riegel will be there.
Sam: Oh, god.
Laura: You're actually doing something else on the internet?
Sam: I always do shows on Geek & Sundry, and this is no change. What's the show called again?
Matt: Asinine Wisdom. It's at 9 00PM on Tuesday, Pacific Time, after Talks Machina. A double-dose of Sam Riegel, which is a lot. We have a new show coming up here, featuring the Weave RPG, from The Monocle Society, called Weave. That'll be showing next Wednesday night at 9:30 Pacific Standard Time, here on the Twitch Channel. Check it out then. It has a great cast of Amy Dallen, Gina DeVivo, Whitney Moore, Becca Scott, and Stef Woodward, so check it out! I hope you like it. Weave is really awesome. I'm really excited to see that. The podcast of episode three last week released today, so if you missed the last episode, or have friends who have been trying to keep up with the podcast, last week's episode is available for download. Once again, we have issue number four of Critical Role: Vox Machina Origins. It's available for download digitally, on Comixology, the Dark Horse app, and all other places where fine digital comic books are sold.
Travis: Go get it, rate it, love it. Show us that you're reading it.
Liam: Burn it. Not the book, Laura's die.
Sam: I've got to help her choose her dice.
Matt: No! Why would you do that? You know better!
Sam: I've already cursed two of them.
Laura: They're out. All the ones that got selected tonight are shades of pinks, purples and blues and I think it's lovely.
Matt: It's like watching a video of guys putting their hands in alligator mouths. Like, why would you do that? It's entertaining for us, but why would you do that? Once again, our fantastic charity, 826LA. If you get the opportunity to either give and help out or donate your time to help teach any of their fantastic classes to help children learn creative writing in environments where it's hard to find that type of tutelage. It's a great program. Check it out at your local 826 chapter and see if you can help out.
Marisha: Tell them you want to run a D&D game for them.
Matt: I think that's it.
Laura: That was so fast, though!
Matt: I know.
Sam: The comic book is out.
Laura: What about our appearances coming up?
Liam: I'm going to be at BAK-Anime this weekend. Two days only in Bakersfield, California. I will talk and I will go out in public.
Laura: Me and Travis--
Travis: Travis and I--
Laura: Travis and I are going to be at Emerald City Comic Con the first weekend in March.
Matt: I'll be at Lexington Comic and Toy Con in Lexington, Kentucky. That's March 9th to the 11th. I'll be at Otafest in Calgary, up north, May 18th to the 20th.
Travis: Keep it within a few months, for the love of--
Matt: And A-Kon in Texas, June 7th to the 10th. If you are anywhere near those regions. I've said before, I'm going to take this off the sheet for the future. We've said that a lot now. Hey, it's not my job to update that sheet. Anyway guys, I'll remember this.
Marisha: You should go check out Good Fortnight Kevin on Alpha because it's a morning show and it's funny. It's dumb and it's super meta.
Matt: Super meta funny dumb show. All right. It appears that the dice have been culled.
Laura: We're on the last one, so we're solid.
Matt: Then let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [click, TV static] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Matt: Welcome back. Last we left off, our group of adventurers had found their various individual fates come together here in the city of Trostenwald, where they had attended a carnival that had blown into town, had watched a horrible occurrence happen where one of the older attendees transformed into this terrifying zombie creature. Upon defeating it, you were all put under investigation as possible culprits for the reason that it occurred. In trying to wander the city to investigate and try and clear your name, you eventually found that there was a fiend hiding amongst these carnival workers. This large devil-like toad creature, which through some research you had found to actually be called a nergaliid, had killed two more of the guards, leaving you to fend with their transformed forms, and then fled deep into the center of the Ustaloch Lake. (clattering off-camera)
Matt: Thank you for the punctuation. Upon gathering your supplies after a night's rest, you managed to, through the trade of a bottle of wine, get passage across the lake onto the central island, which at one time housed the abode of a witch that had long collapsed. Waiting for nightfall, you approached the center of the grove that existed there on the island and found near this ruin this same fiendish nergaliid, as well as Toya, the 12-year-old dwarf girl who had been affixed to him for the performances in the carnival. You did battle with this large fiendish entity who summoned a cluster of imps and managed to knock a few of you pretty heavily to the ground before you finished it off. We left off as you all were finishing licking your wounds, catching your breath, and now as the moonlit night gets its darkest in the sky, you figure out what the next step is in gathering means of absolving yourselves of suspicion. As you've all now taken a moment to yourselves, you can hear the sound of the nearby crickets getting more and more deafening as the silence crawls over the center of the lake. Toya, the young girl, still lies unconscious. The remains of the devil toad, still partially burnt from the final blow delivered by Fjord, are mostly intact above its shoulders, head, and its legs. What would you like to do?
Travis: Ow. We're all fucked up.
Laura: Does anybody need any healing?
Sam: Oh, are you alive right now?
Travis: We're up. Just barely.
Laura: You need some?
Liam: I'm really shabby at the moment.
Laura: Oh, that's too bad because I don't have any spells left.
Liam: That's good. Let's go back and talk to the cops.
Laura: Should we do something with this body?
Taliesin: I think we need to bring it. I think we're going to need a trophy.
Liam: What about just its head?
Taliesin: That'll do.
Travis: It's a big head. It might be all we can take.
Laura: I don't know if it'll fit on the boat. Would it fit on the boat that we came out on?
Matt: How much of the body?
Laura: The whole body.
Matt: The whole body with all of you could probably fit. It doesn't have the usual-- you could probably fit it.
Sam: How about just the head?
Matt: The head it would probably do, but the full body, I'd have to make a few rolls.
Taliesin: I'm going to give the body a quick search to see if there's anything.
Matt: You already did.
Laura: Yeah, I got a bunch of rings. See?
Taliesin: Do I recognize any of these rings?
Matt: No, you do not.
Taliesin: All right. That's disturbing.
Sam: I got one, too.
Travis: Has the head been damaged at all, or is it mostly intact?
Matt: It's mostly intact. There are a few gashes on it from the general fray, but for the most part it's still a solid head.
Travis: Molly, you've got them impressive swords. You want to do some hacking?
Taliesin: Suppose I should.
Marisha: I'd say you have a pretty impressive sword, too.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and carve off the head.
Matt: Okay. It's a tough form. Not only is the exterior of its flesh blubbery and a heavy rubber-like substance that is glistening with whatever mucus-like liquid it naturally produces, but then beneath it, the muscle sinew is extremely tough. It takes you the better part of 20 minutes to finally get the head entirely off the rest of the torso. It weighs enough to the point where you're going to need one or two other hands to get it anywhere.
Travis: That's an artiste at work right there.
Taliesin: This is as far as I go one this one. That's way too heavy for me.
Liam: It's all you, blue.
Marisha: I'll help you out.
Taliesin: I'm going to grab Toya.
Laura: (groaning)
Marisha: (groaning)
Laura: Is Toya waking up at all?
Matt: Toya is passed out. You'd have to try and rouse her.
Laura: It's probably best not to wake her up while we're carrying this head around.
Taliesin: I think that's a very good idea.
Marisha: Yeah, this is frightening.
Liam: The imps burned away?
Matt: Yes, they turned to ash.
Laura: Does he have hair? What are we carrying him by?
Marisha: Yeah, what are we carrying him by?
Matt: Along the brow line there are these small holes that could be breathing holes. You'd have to carry it from there, under the socket, or under the jaw.
Liam: Because that's what you want to stick your finger in.
Travis: Yeah, totally. The mucus hole.
Marisha: I grab the jaw and I say  "Hey, Jester."
Taliesin: I did share meals with this person for two straight years. Never mind. I'm walking away.
Travis: We are fucking with his old co-worker.
Taliesin: I'm already walking away. I took the kid and am walking to the boat.
Laura: Sorry!
Marisha: Sorry!
Travis: Sorry!
Liam: Caleb just retched into the grass from watching that.
Laura: All right, let's carry him.
Taliesin: You're the worst. You're all the worst.
Laura: Fjord, I gave you the bag of skin. Don't forget you have that.
Travis: I have it?
Laura: You have the bag of slimy skin.
Travis: I'm going to salt it and hang it out to dry.
Liam: If it will help tomorrow or today-- what time is it? It's the middle of the night, isn't it?
Matt: You approached just after dusk, so between the slow moving in there, the combat, and the rest afterward it's probably close to 10:00PM.
Liam: I know exactly what time it is, don't I? Yeah.
Travis: You know exactly what time it is?
Liam: It's something I've always been able to-- why is everybody looking at me like-- (vomiting sound)
Laura: Where's Frumpkin?
Liam: (fwoosh)
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: At this point, Molly, as you're ahead of the group and you're making your way through the trees, Toya begins to stir in your grasp. Her eyes open a bit as you're holding her and she looks up at you, confused, eyes lolling around in the sockets for a moment before they see you and clarify. "Molly?"
Taliesin: I know, dear. You've been through a bit. There's been some bad business.
Matt: "What happened?"
Taliesin: (sighs) A friend turned on us, but it's going to be all right. I'm going to get you home, all right?
Matt: "Wait, where's Kylre?" She starts trying to fight your grasp.
Taliesin: I'll explain it later.
Matt: She's going to try and break free of your grasp. Are you going to attempt to hold onto her?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Liam: How far away are they from the rest of us?
Matt: While you guys have been doing all this, he's gone on ahead. He's probably a good 40 to 50 feet ahead. Go ahead and roll an athletics check.
Taliesin: You're a monster.
Laura: Oh, no!
Travis: Tell me you did it.
Taliesin: No, it's not that bad.
Laura: Oh, it looked like a one from this angle. Still pretty terrible.
Travis: (chanting) Level two.
Marisha: (chanting) Level two.
Laura: You were rolling bad on this the last game. You need to stop rolling that one.
Matt: Yeah, that dice needs to go away.
Taliesin: I've got some new stuff coming in.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: It's coming across the border. It's real good.
Taliesin: Coming in from the Feywild.
Matt: You can choose athletics or acrobatics.
Taliesin: Oh. Can I reroll?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then that's nine.
Matt: That still beats her. She rolled a five. All right, wanted to double-check. She's scrambling and as you pull her back she tries to fight for a second and then goes limp in your grasp and goes, "I'm scared."
Taliesin: I know. It's going to be a bit rough, but it was for the best. I'm so sorry. Some people just turn, I'm so sorry.
Matt: "What happened?"
Taliesin: He got sick. There was something inside him. There was something that made him do some bad things, but it had to be taken care of. You're going to be all right.
Matt: She gets really quiet for a second. You get to the boat and the gentleman earlier that you had passed the wine off to is sitting there waiting. He has a small pouch that's opened with some dried meat that he's chewing on as he's waiting. As you guys walk up, he says: "Oh, I see you've finished."
Laura: (groaning)
Marisha: (groaning)
Matt: (shouting) "What in the hell is that?!"
Marisha: Move!
Laura: We told you we were having a party, man!
Liam: I was just about to suggest covering that up, but you know, all cards on the table.
Matt: He grabs his bag of dried meat, pulls it up, and backs up. "I didn't know-- What is that? What did you do? What is that?"
Marisha: I said we were going to be doing some frog digging.
Taliesin: Biggest frog you've ever seen.
Matt: There's a pause before this tiny screeching sound begins to emit from Toya. This high pitched and barely audible squeak as Toya begins to scream.
Laura: I take off my cloak and I cover the head with it.
Taliesin: I was trying to keep her away from that.
Matt: It's hard to keep her away from that.
Travis: We literally cut the head off Barney and shoved it in her face. (singsong) I love you.
Taliesin: The Barney that been raising her, yes. Really take that in. Off to a great start.
Matt: After Jester throws her cloak over Toya--
Laura: No, not Toya. Over the head.
Taliesin: I'm trying to keep her quiet.
Matt: She's sobbing into your arms at this point. You feel her body shaking against your grasp.
Laura: I feel so bad.
Taliesin: You should.
Sam: Poor girl.
Taliesin: I'm going to take her to the front of the boat and keep her far away from all that.
Liam: I pull Fjord away for a moment, about ten or 15 feet away. This man in the boat has seen all of you who are supposed to be under house arrest. We cannot have him talking to the authorities.
Sam: Should we kill him?
Liam: Jeez! Come here.
Travis: I have a good feeling that this guy is a man of upstanding nature. I'm sure he'll keep it to himself.
Liam: Oh, that's very trusting.
Travis: Yeah, of course.
Sam: We gave him one bottle of wine. That's not very much.
Travis: We have another bottle. Don't we?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Oh, you're here too, now. Great, it's a party.
Marisha: We could also toss him a bit of gold if we think it would make him forget the night.
Travis: After all, we came to him, right? I would prefer not to use any violence.
Liam: I'm not suggesting that, but it's either violence or giving him a little something.
Marisha: What makes you think he's going to go talk to the authorities?
Liam: You want to leave it to chance?
Marisha: Who cares?
Sam: This is a small town, Beau. Everyone talks to everyone. You taught us that.
Marisha: I did, but everyone also hated the circus.
Liam: Molly, do you want to join this conversation?
Taliesin: I've been listening. I pull out a gold coin. Give him this.
Laura: Maybe one more. Or two more.
Marisha: I pull two out as well.
Laura: I'll pull three out.
Matt: He's recessed to the very back of his boat, wide-eyed as you approach.
Travis: You're right. Coin is a good idea.
Laura: Go charm him, Fjord. You're very charming.
Marisha: You've got fisherman vibes.
Travis: Oh, shit. Wait a minute. How long did that fight take?
Matt: You've returned to your normal half-orc form.
Travis: Oh, cool. Okay. There was an old man who was with us before.
Taliesin: And now there's a little girl. It's all coming full circle.
Travis: Maybe we give him the extra bottle of wine and you go talk to him.
Liam: Walking up to the boat--
Marisha: Here. (clink)
Liam: Collecting it as I go. The thing of it is, we've just done Trostenwald-- what was that? Never mind. --a great service. There was an unsavory element-- did you know the circus was in town? Doesn't matter. There was a bad fellow-- that's his head-- with them. It's no fault of theirs. You pick weird folk up on the road in the circus. Isn't that right, Mollymauk?
Taliesin: I'll let that go.
Matt: He reaches over, grabs the oar from the side, and lifts the cloak off the face.
Liam: That's going to rile you up. That's a bad idea.
Matt: "It doesn't look like a savory creature."
Laura: It wasn't. Trust us.
Taliesin: Took a lot out of us.
Liam: But the situation in town is a little political. We're going to take this thing out of here and I'm going to report it to the authorities. We don't really want to create a stir and frighten people here. I hope you will take--
Laura: We like to be unsung heroes. You know, like superheroes with secret identities.
Marisha: Yeah, we're an underground anonymous activist group.
Laura: Yeah, that helps people. But if everyone knows who we are, it'll be much harder to fight all the crime.
Liam: Try to focus on the gold.
Matt: He slowly reaches out and takes it from your hand. "All right. I trust it was a bad thing. So I'm going to take you back, and then you promise I'll never see you again?"
Laura: We'll try really hard to not let you see us.
Taliesin: If you see us, we won't make eye contact.
Laura: We'll pretend we don't know you.
Matt: "That includes the goblin."
Sam: I was never here. We never had this conversation.
Laura: She's a halfling.
Matt: He glances over and takes a closer look.
Sam: I'm very ugly for a halfling.
Matt: "Let's just get back to shore." He grabs the oar, takes the bottle of wine that he had mostly drunk by himself before, and polishes it off in one series of gulps.
Laura: Don't boat drunk.
Matt: As you all gather up onto the ship, he begins to paddle you back towards the western shore of the Ustaloch to the outskirts of Trostenwald.
Marisha: When we get to the shore, we should probably split up.
Laura: How are we going to get this giant head to the authorities?
Marisha: That's a good question.
Laura: Oh, I got an idea! Why don't you go get a wagon as soon as we get to shore, and we'll help you load it onto the wagon, and then you just take it on in yourself.
Taliesin: It's a shame we didn't just get rid of a wagon not more than one night ago.
Sam: Why do we need to take it with us? Us traipsing through town with a giant head seems like it would draw focus. Why don't we just put it somewhere and send the authorities out here to find it later?
Taliesin: Someone else may get to it, or something might happen.
Sam: What are they going to do with it? It's a big head!
Marisha: We could leave someone with it, and we can just--
Travis: I could stand guard as a crownsguard next to it.
Taliesin: What could people do with the head of a creature like this?
Matt: What could people do with the head of a creature like this? Who knows.
Taliesin: Would I know?
Laura: They could make a lot of soup.
Matt: They could turn it in for-- there's a lot of poor folk here. If they had a large looking odd creature, that's worth some gold.
Sam: We can hide it. Maybe some of us have skills to hide things.
Liam: I think Fjord had a good idea, which is if you can disguise yourself as a crownsguard again, you wait with it. You guys get back to the tavern, yeah?
Marisha: You can go and alert the authorities.
Liam: Now, here's the thing. I may be speaking out of turn-- I know I don't know you very well, but it feels like the thing that we all share in common here is that we don't wish to make-- maybe not you-- make a big splash here.
Travis: Agreed. The less attention, the better.
Laura: Well, you know, whatever.
Travis: The less attention, the better.
Taliesin: For the moment.
Liam: Okay, so maybe I'm 70 to 80 percent correct, but we're all in this together.
Marisha: And gold. I like getting paid.
Taliesin: We need to get this one back to the circus, too. You might be helpful for that.
Liam: I don't want to make a big thing. I'm going to go the authorities, to-- my keen mind tells me that woman's name was--?
Matt: Oh, the-- sorry.
Liam: Yeah, the one who wanted to go eat.
Matt: Yes, you're talking about--
Travis: Norda?
Matt: Yes, Lawmaster Norda.
Liam: Norda? I want to go to her and citizen's arrest kind of thing. Keep it quiet, don't need big accolades, will take gold, and then I'll bring that back and we can divvy that up. That's no problem.
Travis: I like it. As soon as other crownsguard arrive with Norda and the rest of whoever you bring to the scene, maybe I can go with you and help return Toya.
Laura: You disappear quickly, because if you get drawn into that investigation, it would be bad.
Liam: Right, and if nobody recognizes you-- Do you remember any of the guards that were in town that you could make yourself look like specifically?
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: What was that guy's name?
Laura: What were the two guards that keep coming to the tavern?
Marisha: Oh, wait!
Laura: We wrote their names down.
Marisha: Jonas and Lucas.
Laura: That's right!
Sam: The Jonas Brothers.
Marisha: The Jonas Brothers.
Matt: They're not related at all.
Liam: DM, question. The two zombified back at the circus tents, were they burnt to a crisp beyond recognition?
Matt: One of them was, and they have been discovered.
Liam: Yeah, but was he recognizable? Did we leave him looking like that dude at the end of The Last Crusade after he drank from the wrong cup?
Matt: With some time, he could be identified.
Liam: Okay. Well, the Jonas Brothers it is, friends.
Sam: Just to game this out. You, Caleb, someone who is not suspected of a crime, is going to bring the severed head of a member of the circus to the police--
Laura: No, he's going to go to the police and bring them to the head.
Sam: Either way. You, Caleb, someone who is not suspected of a crime, is going to point the police to the severed head of a member of the circus with no evidence showing what that thing was or that it was evil, and that will somehow not implicate other people who were not with us at the time. How is this going to prove their innocence, just showing a head?
Liam: They already believe that the circus is terrible. I think they were just going to confirm their own suspicions.
Marisha: Also, Toya. If she would speak honestly, she would absolve all of us.
Travis: I think Beau makes a very good point. Without Toya's testimony we're in trouble.
Taliesin: I'm hoping Toya will--
Liam: Well, that's a sticky situation. Because what if she talks about my friends who were there with me?
Taliesin: She knows what to say when guards are asking questions.
Liam: It looks like she knows how to go off like a siren.
Taliesin: She's had a bad night.
Liam: I'm at one hit point, I understand.
Taliesin: We'll have a talk. We'll get her to some people who can calm her down and make sure she remembers how we take care of each other.
Matt: "If there's something you want to ask me, I'm right here." You're all in this boat as it makes its way across the Ustaloch.
Taliesin: Sorry, dear. I was hoping that we didn't have to have this conversation in front of strangers.
Matt: "Can someone please explain to me what's going on?"
Liam: Can you explain to us, maybe, your relationship with Kylre? If that was his name.
Matt: "I mean, that's the name I've ever known."
Liam: Let's talk about the killing part, though.
Matt: "I don't know anything about that. When we did the show the other night, the horrible man--"
Taliesin: It turns out that that was-- Kylre did that.
Matt: "Why?"
Taliesin: I don't know why. Something snapped. He's hurt and killed a lot of people. We think that maybe he's been making you sick too.
Laura: Have you ever heard him say nergaliid?
Matt: "No. Where's Gustav?"
Taliesin: Gustav is having trouble with the authorities. We're going to need to all work together to save him.
Travis: Unfortunately, the authorities think that Gustav and the circus are responsible for what happened. Actually, it's just Kylre. He wasn't what you thought he was, I'm afraid.
Taliesin: The twins are being the twins, Ornna's being Ornna. But I think we can save everybody. We just need to take care of each other.
Matt: "He was my friend, though."
Liam: Child, how did you grow so close to him?
Matt: "Gustav put us together for our act and he protected me. I felt safe around him. He didn't let anybody get too close I didn't want to."
Liam: Did he communicate with you in some way?
Matt: "He talked."
Liam: What did you talk about?
Matt: "Well, we talked about everybody else in the family. We talked about how I missed not having a family. He didn't talk about himself much, but it was mainly just little games."
Laura: Did he teach you how to sing to affect people's minds?
Matt: "No. That was how I got by before I met these guys."
Liam: I am sure this is painful for you. You are young. Sometimes people we feel we know can be someone else. Regrettably, this is one of those instances. He was a dangerous thing. It is very important that this is buried here. You want to travel on with the circus and with Mollymauk and your friends. That thing tried to kill us. It did kill things in Trostenwald. Who knows what it would have done to you, child?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Oof.
Sam: It's good.
Liam: No, it's not good.
Taliesin: I felt it.
Travis: It's Sam good.
Liam: It is only a six. Rolled very low.
Matt: As you're talking to her, her eyes keep flickering off of your face and over towards Beau. You watch her curl back into herself and get quiet.
Travis: It might do for you to apologize.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: Sorry for what, Beau?
Marisha: Really, Jester?
Laura: Really.
Taliesin: No, I want to hear this too.
Marisha: Sorry for choking you with my stick.
Taliesin: Somehow that was better than what I was hoping for.
Liam: Rated T for Teen.
Sam: And I'll never do it again? (laughter)
Marisha: And I'll never do it again. As long as you don't try that again, of course, I guess.
Laura: It was only because Kylre was trying to kill us and she was afraid that you were helping him.
Marisha: Yeah, I wasn't trying to hurt you. I was just trying to get you to stop singing. But it was so abrasive.
Taliesin: You know how people outside can be. The mean girl was just afraid of you and we're going to let her go on this one.
Matt: "I'm tired."
Taliesin: Yeah, I know. Let's get you home, okay?
Matt: She leans into you, Molly. After a few minutes, she falls asleep against you.
Laura: That went well, I think.
Taliesin: Choked you with my stick?!
Marisha: I did.
Laura: She apologized for exactly what she did.
Taliesin: That was certainly memorable.
Matt: "All right, we're here." The boat hits the edge of the dock. He hops off and pulls the rope up. Slowly manages the boat over to the side of the dock, ties it up.
Laura: How many people are around the dock right now?
Matt: There's no boats at the dock that are being manned currently. There are a few boats out on the water that you saw in the distance. There are some night fishermen. There's nobody immediately in the vicinity.
Travis: Okay, I'm going to hop off the boat and break eye contact with the captain of the boat so that I can Disguise Self into a crownsguard.
Liam: I talk to him while you do that. You have your wine, you have your gold. Thank you very much, it is much appreciated. It was a lovely trip.
Matt: "Yes that's fine. Just, please, get out of my boat."
Travis: (English accent) Who goes there? What is this, what have you brought?
Liam: Oh, I have felled a beast.
Matt: "They got in my boat. I-- they--"
Travis: Are you responsible for this?
Matt: "No. They took over my boat and forced me to take them to the middle island there."
Liam: You will not take credit for my kill. I have killed this thing and I want it to be watched. I am going to the authorities. We will bring them back and get this sorted.
Travis: It's a horrifying-looking creature. You are to be commended for your bravery. Lawmaster Norda will want to know about this immediately.
Laura: You weren't here.
Matt: Make a deception check with advantage.
Taliesin: This is so weird.
Laura: I'm just holding a bowling ball.
Travis: 21. No, 20.
Matt: He goes, "I want nothing to do with this. Good night." He helps each of you quickly get off the boat. Ties and locks it up and makes a beeline--
Sam: (shouting) We'll come to your house with your share of the reward. (laughter)
Travis: All right, we can't waste any time.
Laura: Can I lob the head up over the side of the boat?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: Monster calves.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: You're strong, though.
Taliesin: Are you?
Liam: Yeah, but at level two you need to roll higher than a three.
Laura: Eight!
Matt: You get it partway up and it begins sliding back into the boat and plops into the boat and goes (bouncing) and you have to catch yourself.
Travis: Tongue and mouth just (lolling).
Matt: It's terrifying.
Laura: All right, I need help. It's still covered, don't worry. She can't see what we're doing, it's covered with my cloak.
Sam: I'll help you.
Laura: By the way, it's a little tiny cloak. It's like a half cape so it's like--
Taliesin: It's like a napkin on a buffalo.
Matt: A doily on a couch.
Sam: I'll help you.
Laura: It's going to squish you.
Sam: That's all right, I'm strong. One, two, three!
Matt: Eventually you guys get it up onto the dock.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Travis: Molly, do you intend to keep Toya here or do you need to take her back?
Taliesin: Take her right back. No one can know that she's been anywhere.
Liam: That is correct. Take her and sequester her with the family so not a peep gets out.
Taliesin: We'll explain to her what needs to be done.
Marisha: How do we trust you all won't skip town in the middle of the night?
Taliesin: We still have people in the lockup.
Laura: Gustav's in jail still.
Marisha: So?
Laura: Some people are loyal.
Taliesin: I'll be back and I have to show back up with you people anyway. I'm going to get her as quickly as possible.
Matt: The rest of you guys are doing?
Laura: Who is not very stealthy here?
Travis: I'm keeping watch over the toad head.
Marisha: I have a plus six to my stealth.
Taliesin: I wouldn't say no to it before I take off.
Laura: Oh that's true, you're sneaking back to the carnival. I give you a nice little blessing.
Liam: You're going to stay with your new friend. You can't come to--
Sam: I'm not coming with you?
Liam: Not this time. It's not-- you know why.
Sam: What if you're in trouble? You're very hurt. You've had a terrible night.
Liam: If any problem should arise, I'll send Frumpkin straight away to you.
Sam: Unless you're dead. No one's going to be around to save you if you get into trouble.
Liam: I'm almost dead already.
Sam: Yeah, that's not good.
Laura: That's not comforting, Caleb.
Liam: Nott, this is what I talked to you about the other night. These are our friends and we're going to sort this out and figure out what we do next. It has been you and me, now it is you and me and them. Okay? You're with your blue friend here.
Laura: You can hold my hand.
Liam: I'll be back. I'm just going to have a conversation. We have gotten out of prisons before, you and I. I'm not worried about that.
Sam: Her hands are very warm.
Laura: I'm warm blooded.
Liam: Well, she was just holding the throbbing head.
Sam: Oh god.
Laura: Nott, you were too.
Sam: That's true. But I didn't have my fingers in the holes.
Laura: Should I leave my cloak here over the head, sir, good sir, guard man?
Travis: It's fucking me, right? We know it's still me. I'm right here.
Marisha: We're not RPing still?
Travis: No.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: You can do what you want.
Laura: Should I leave my cloak here or should I take it with me?
Travis: Sure, I'll make a dramatic flourish of it.
Laura: Just make sure you bring it back home.
Marisha: I feel like the cloak is identifying to you.
Travis: Take it with you, scratch that. Good idea.
Marisha: Like where did this really pretty pink and lavender cloak come from?
Laura: It's green.
Marisha: I'm sorry, green. I haven't looked at the art.
Sam: It's nighttime, the moonlight makes everything sort of look purple.
Taliesin: That's canon.
Travis: All right, go quickly.
Laura: Okay, we stealth away.
Taliesin: What is my stealth bonus now?
Laura: You just get advantage.
Matt: We'll get to you in just a second. The rest of you guys make a stealth check, please.
Liam: I don't need to cause I'm just taking a stroll.
Matt: Nope. For those of you who are--
Marisha: Ten total.
Matt: That's ten.
Laura: Seven.
Sam: 26.
Liam: Yep, that's my girl.
Matt: Okay, before we get to you. As you guys make your way back to the Nestled Nook Inn, you come to the intersection where the alleyway leads you back to where the rope you had originally let down was placed. The rope is still there, in the darkness. As you make your way into the alley a voice goes, "Excuse me." The three of you glance over and you see a crownsguard at the end of the alley that's currently there with his arms crossed. "Can I help you?"
Laura: Is our back to him still?
Matt: He's to the side. You guys are all looking up at the rope now and he's to the right of you.
Laura: Is it still dark out?
Matt: Yes. It's close to midnight at this time.
Laura: Oh my god. Has anybody seen my shoe that I dropped earlier around here?
Marisha: I immediately drop to my knees and start looking for a shoe.
Travis: What, what?
Sam: Did you say a shoe?
Matt: I would like for you to make a-- (laughs)
Travis: You turned into Mr. Rogers?
Sam: A shoe!?
Matt: I would like for you to make a deception check, with disadvantage please.
Sam: My shoe!
Laura: Eight.
Matt: As Beau's on the ground frantically searching for a shoe and Nott's there in the darkness, the guard with his arms crossed goes (whistles). He begins to walk and approach you as two more guards close off the other side of the alley and they begin to come up to you guys.
Travis: How far away are they from me? Too far?
Matt: Too far.
Marisha: Drop one of those rings, drop a ring!
Laura: It's not a shoe! I drop a ring. Wait, did we take a short rest when we were on the boat? We did. It was a short rest on the boat.
Matt: To get across, I would say I'd allow a short rest.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Invoke Duplicity. Behind the guard.
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check to see if they notice you suddenly casting a spell, or a spell-like effect.
Laura: Please please please. Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: Okay, so you Invoke Duplicity. Another version of you appears behind one of three guards. What are you doing?
Laura: Oh God. Oh, she doesn't make a sound, does she?
Matt: Let's double-check this new ability that I'm getting used to.
Laura: I don't think she makes any noise.
Marisha: Can she tap?
Laura: But if she can cast through her, then I can imagine she can make contact because she casts on touch.
Matt: You create an illusory duplicate of yourself. It is an illusion, it cannot make actually physical contact with anything.
Laura: Well, if she's behind one of the guards then two of the other guards can see her.
Matt: Sure.
Sam: We took a short rest on the thing?
Matt: I'll say on the boat across the river, sure.
Sam: If you want to hit dice it up.
Travis: You can roll one hit die. He's rolling commando. He don't want it.
Matt: Anyway, you Invoke Duplicity and you appear behind him.
Laura: Yeah. My duplicate is going to jump up and down and start flailing her arms and then run down the alley around the building.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We have to kill these fucking guards, don't we?
Marisha: No.
Matt: The guard sees something quickly dart into the shadows and continues walking towards you.
Laura: Oh, come on!
Marisha: Just go with it, go with it.
Laura: Did you see that behind you?
Matt: The guard approaches and goes, "It seems that you have been out and about when you were supposed to be within the inn."
Marisha: Found it! The ring.
Laura: That's my ring. I dropped it out the window.
Sam: She calls it a shoe, it's a shoe ring.
Laura: I like to wear them on my toes.
Matt: Three more guards have now approached from the front of the building and they approach and begin pulling out manacles and chains and say, "We're going to have to take you to the stockade."
Laura: Oh, please don't. Really, we just left the building because we wanted to go--
Matt: You're being locked up right now, as we speak.
Laura: This is the stupidest thing!
Marisha: So stupid!
Taliesin: Level two!
Sam: Do I have to go, too?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Sam: But I was just a bystander! I was walking down here and I saw these two ruffians and I was going to go get help.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Laura: It's actually true, she wasn't with us.
Sam: Zero. (laughter)
Travis: You rolled a zero?
Liam: Look at him!
Travis: What's your modifier, negative two?
Sam: Three minus three is zero.
Matt: That went into my nose.
Travis: Brave new world.
Matt: As you're telling him this, your mask goes (creak). He goes, "Arrest that creature!"
Taliesin: We're going to die from bad paperwork.
Marisha: Yeah, we really are.
Taliesin: Literally, we're going to die from bad paperwork.
Matt: You both are put in chains. You're put in chains both arms and legs.
Laura: Oh, that's just mean.
Sam: Racism!
Matt: They bring you over to the stockade. Mollymauk. I need you to make a stealth check with advantage.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: You guys slowly make your way through the low grass over towards where the outside of the carnival is. As you approach, you can see there's about five crownsguard that are making rounds around the outside. It looks like where previously they had been keeping watch over the people that were there, since the murder of two of their own, it has heightened the intensity of the watch. It looks like it's fairly well watched. You get the sense, at a distance, that you would have a hard time getting in there. You can try and sneak her in and sneak out, but it seems dangerous.
Taliesin: Oh, shite. Not even a good push to get her underneath, just back into one of the tents, or no?
Matt: You can try.
Taliesin: Yeah, I don't know they're caught, do I?
Matt: No, you have no idea.
Marisha: Let's all get caught.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and wait for an advantageous moment.
Matt: Which I'm going to allow you to do. You stay outside of the outskirts of the torchlight at the very front of the tent and the back of the tent. The fire of the actual encampment has gone out because you don't see any other carnival members. The sisters ran. They fled. You don't see any sign of Desmond or Ornna. Make one more stealth check, for the two of you, with advantage because you still have the ability. You're at the cusp end of it though.
Taliesin: Ooh. 22.
Matt: You manage to pace yourself, just carefully wait for the right moment, dart out of the grass having her under your arm and she's like, "What? Why? What is going on?"
Taliesin: You remember. Nothing happened. Find Ornna. You didn't see me. You just hid and waited and you didn't know that anything was wrong. If people ask, unless you hear from me, you don't know anything.
Matt: "Okay." You slip her into the tent and back out, none the wiser.
Taliesin: I'm going to start heading back to the inn.
Matt: Okay. You go back to the inn. You two. You're just waiting?
Liam: No, I'm not waiting. I'm going to see Norda, so I'll see you shortly. Be ready.
Travis: You will.
Matt: Okay. You make your way to the stockade. As you approach and make your way into the interior, the two crownsguard at the front say, "Hold. What's your business?"
Liam: Excuse me, and I lurch and prop myself up against a wall and push back. Excuse me. I just had a very harrowing night.
Matt: "Have you been drinking?"
Liam: You get me Norda this very minute and I will tell you what has happened with this circus and in this town and don't keep me waiting another minute. I'm bleeding out here. Arschloch.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Taliesin: Nice.
Liam: Oh, come on.
Matt: Just keep it in the--
Liam: I wish I had gone with that because it was great there but it's not great here. That is a nine!
Matt: It is indeed. He sits there and glares down at you for a second, your posturing, this filthy, scruffy man in a coat that wandered up out of nowhere covered in a little bit of his own blood. He just looks down at you for a second, "Sorry. She's done for the night."
Sam: They keep regular hours here.
Liam: Excuse me. There are very good people being held under house arrest in a tavern right now. They are innocent. I have evidence that I can show her. This whole thing can be solved now.
Matt: "This whole thing can be solved first thing in the morning. I'll let you sleep it off. Have some water. Come back when you're feeling a little more yourself."
Sam: Kill them all.
Travis: I draw back, and flames burst forth!
Liam: Okay. I look him in the eye. I will go away. Get the message to her that the head of the circus frog is at the docks, waiting for her inspection.
Matt: At this point, you hear a voice on the inside, just like, "Good night, good night" and a cloaked figure exits the front doorway, roughly about four and a half foot tall.
Liam: I remember the height.
Matt: Norda is off the clock and is currently leaving for the evening to return to her home.
Liam: (shouting) There is a circus toad's remains at the docks! I would like to put this town's fears to rest. I am looking for-- What's her name? Yorda.
All: Norda.
Liam: Norda. Yorda's at the inn. Right?
Matt: There's Norda and then Yorda because I like to make it as confusing as possible.
Liam: Liam's memory is really spotty, but Caleb's is rock-solid.
Matt: It's funny. When you spell things on paper, they seem so much different and when you say them out loud they're like, "Ah, they're very similar." The figure stops and turns and you hear this audible (heavy sigh). The figure waddles over towards you and pulls the hood back and it's Norda. "All right, what's this about a frog head?"
Liam: Thank goodness. Thank you, gentlemen. Forgive me, I can see that you're trying to get yourself home to bed.
Matt: "That would be preferable, aye." You see bags under her eyes. She's had a long day, her hair's a bit frazzled, and she looks like she's waiting for you to finish.
Liam: You are very aware that there are people at the Nestled Nook under house arrest by your order? They are innocent and I can prove it, and I would like to end things as quickly as possible. I have killed one of the circus folk this evening.
Matt: "Now this'll be real interesting." She looks past you, and you follow her eyeline, and there you hear the sound of chains as a handful of crownsguard with Jester, Beau, and Nott, in manacles, approach from behind. "These ones, you're talking about, right?"
Marisha: Help. Help. Help. (laughter)
Liam: Funny story. Yes, these are the people I was talking about. Nothing has changed, however, and I am only asking to take another ten minutes of your time to walk to the dock. One of the performers has been killed this evening, and I have done it. I staked out the circus because my friends were in trouble, and wrongly accused, and I knew this. So I staked out the circus this evening, and watched as this toad thing left the grounds there. It did this to me, and I, in a rage, followed it and destroyed it, and I will show you the remains of my work. We'll put it to bed. I'm either a clown or I'm a toad-killer. Let's see what it is.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Come on, you fucker.
Laura: Oh, goddamn.
Liam: 11.
Matt: She goes, (sighs) "Hold onto them for just a moment." She walks back inside. A moment passes, and she returns with four other guards.
Laura: I keep doing this so I can make a jingling sound with my chains.
Liam: You know, that's probably agitating the issue. Let's go to the docks.
Matt: She comes up. "All right. Drag them along with us. Show us what this thing is, and if what you say is not true, you'll join them. How's that sound?"
Liam: I'm good with these terms. Follow me please.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: You know, the only reason we were out of the inn is because we were looking for you, Caleb. We didn't know where you went.
Liam: I am not going to answer her. I'm just walking very firmly, with purpose, to the docks.
Matt: It has been close to an hour at this point.
Travis: If I can clock that, I would like to leave the head, move off into the shadows, and assume my older man form.
Matt: Using your second slot.
Travis: No, I can just drop--
Matt: Oh no, you can do this whenever, that's right.
Travis: I'll drop the crownsguard, and make the old man and sit so I can keep an eye on it, but away from it.
Matt: Eventually, you guys are led up to the docks, where you guide them.
Liam: Moment of confusion-- here it is, right here, where I left it. Nobody has tampered with it. I turn around and I pull back my clothing and show a huge slash across my body, and say: You see this? It was done by this thing. (whoosh)
Matt: As soon as you pull back and reveal the face, its jaw is relaxed now, its muscles have sat now that it's been left in the dock, and it's pooled at its base. This old pumpkin look. Its tongue's lolling out and unraveled on the ground, what remained within its salivary glands has soaked the remaining wood around its base. One of the eyes has rolled back, but it's a horrible display. The guards take a step back immediately at the reveal, and Norda immediately gets interested, gets close, takes a look at it, and begins prodding a bit with her finger.
Liam: It is as bad as it looks, and if you have any holy people in this city, they will confirm that this thing is fiendish.
Matt: (sighs) "You say it's a fiend? Because what this looks like is you just murdered one of our possible witnesses and/or other members of this investigation, so I'm hoping this is a fiend. I don't know fiends."
Liam: I hope you don't believe that I slashed open my own body and then went to the police.
Matt: "Honey, I've been doing this for a long time. I've seen stranger. Hold on just a second." She calls one of the guards over, whispers to him for a second. He rushes off. "Just so happens we have someone in town who might be able to confirm this for us, might help your case."
Laura: Who is it?
Matt: "Oh, they will be here shortly."
Liam: I sit down on a crate and I stop talking.
Matt: Okay, and this awkward period of time with the guards all just standing there, holding you as you wait patiently. Some of them are tapping their fingers. You start rattling your chains and two guards pull the chains taut so you can't do it anymore. Mollymauk, as you begin to make your way back into town, because you're making your way through the dock district along the lakeside and you look up ahead, and you can see there's a couple of torches being held by crownsguard right where the head was left, and you can see Caleb, and then three of your allies in chains.
Taliesin: Hmm. (sighs)
Laura: Oh no! What are you going to do?
Taliesin: I'm going to get a little closer.
Matt: All right, make a stealth check, please. You do not have advantage anymore, that has passed. It's been more than a hour.
Taliesin: Just to take a look at what is actually going on.
Laura: Not to get too close.
Taliesin: Not too close.
Matt: Yeah, it's not a high DC.
Taliesin: 19!
Matt: You get a little closer, you are still maybe a good 100 feet or so away from them, keeping to the shadows along a building, keeping low. Thankfully it's nighttime, it's pushing midnight at this point. Because you're ostentatiously dressed, but there isn't a lot of light in your colors. As far as you know right now, no one can see you, you're too far away to hear much, but you can keep an eye on them.
Taliesin: Oh, what's the play? What's the play? Ah! I'm going to-- Yeah, fuck it. I'm going to walk up.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: With briskly. There I find you! I've been looking everywhere. You're not supposed to leave the bloody inn you-- oh. (sighs) They're already in trouble, apparently.
Matt: "I love when they do this! Chain him up." You are shackled as well.
Taliesin: All right. Less questions to answer.
Matt: At this point, Norda is starting to smile a bit. She's like "Man, if we could have more criminals like you lot, my job would be far easier. I would get home a lot earlier."
Sam: We're not criminals! We're not! Me and Caleb were just travelling ever since we broke out of that-- Nothing!
Taliesin: Dance number.
Liam: No, it's good that you try so hard to protect the rights of giant frog creatures. I'm very impressed.
Laura: Fiend creatures specifically.
Matt: At this point the guard that had left earlier, who has been gone for about 15 to 20 minutes or so, comes back with a brisk jog. There's another figure walking up behind him, also jogging. You can see light gray hood and cloak around and as the figure approaches into the torch light, pulls back the hood, and you see this long shoulder length curled blond hair. A very very delicate looking elven male, who approaches. "I believe I've been summoned, Norda?" "Yes sorry, this is Archivist Zeenoth. He's been in town for a few days and he comes from the library that knows a lot about a lot of things. I hope that he can help us in this. Zeenoth, they're calling this thing a fiend. What do you know about this?" He steps closer, kneels down next to the head.
Taliesin: Xhorhas.
Matt: Hmm?
Taliesin: I just whisper Xhorhas.
Matt: "Yes, these creatures do frequent Xhorhas." He gives some look over, pulls a small book out of his side pouch. Begins to thumb through it, compares a few things. "I'm not a specialist, unfortunately. This creature is very much a very dangerous entity from the far east. I'm surprised it made it this far into civilization before being destroyed. It's a good thing it has been." He now gets to look at everyone, over the crew and goes, "Are you the ones who slew it?"
Laura: Oh well technically it was Caleb, technically.
Liam: Just me.
Matt: As the figure looks over and stops on Beau and kind of smiles.
Sam: What's going on over there?
Marisha: Oh sorry, I just have back issues. I'm just stretching.
Liam: Yes it was difficult, but I prevailed in the end. The city is safe. What library was that that you mentioned?
Matt: "Oh I'm an archivist. I'm the archivist of the Cobalt Soul."
Liam: Here in town?
Matt: "No, I'm from Zadash. I'm a bit out of my depth at the moment."
Laura: What brings you this far?
Matt: "Well, I have business." At this point Norda goes, "All right you know what? This is some serious bullshite. We're all just chilling here at the docks, we have confirmed that's a fiend."
Laura: The nergaliid!
Matt: "A nergaliid! Bring them back to the stockade. Let's have a trial." They begin to pull you guys back to the stockade. Two of the guards grab the nergaliid head and they begin dragging it along, and you guys are all being pulled.
Liam: Oh sorry, one last thing, Watchmaster. I pull out the book that I read about the nergaliid. Here this is a gift, for you. This is folklore. You will find I have marked a page in there. It will describe this thing.
Matt: As you guys are walking, she thumbs through and finds the page, begins to read, passes it to the archivist. He begins to read it. He passes it back. You guys all make your way into the stockade. You're not brought to her chambers, you're brought to a much larger room. This room has much more of a stark, barren, stone interior. There are benches built. There is a central kind of a pit. There's about four or five steps down into this pit. Then above that is a desk where Norda takes as the law master. As you step in you realize, oh this is a room of judgement. What are you doing?
Travis: I would like to try, once they start making their way back to that facility, to quickly make my way to the inn, if I can as the old man, enter, make my way into the restroom, drop my disguise, come back out as Fjord. Oh the water closet, what have you.
Matt: There is a shared water closet.
Liam: It's just a pot.
Travis: Yeah, the room with the pot in it. Then make my way back to the front door, stick my head out where the guards are.
Matt: Yeah, there's two guards still posted there. Most of them have already left because they're carting off the rest of your friends.
Travis: Please, I can't seem to find any of my comrades. Have you seen where they have gone?
Matt: They look at each other. "Yeah, they've been arrested."
Travis: I was afraid as much. Could I make my way down to where they are being held? I would like to be present, if it would be prudent.
Matt: "You leave our watch, we cut you." They both flank you side to side and push you ahead a little bit. They are glued to your right and left.
Travis: Very kind of you.
Matt: They lead you to the stockade. As you guys are brought into this chamber, Norda sets up.
Sam: Who is going to go get the little girl?
Liam: You're the little girl here. You're confused. It's been a night.
Matt: Norda, up there at the top, takes her cloak off, puts on her ceremonial armor bits. There's a whole element to the presentation of this. You can see her tiredly putting them on. Sets her hands on the top, "I would like you to present what evidence you have to absolve you of these charges against you and then based on what you present, I'll decide whether or not you're innocent or guilty or require further investigation. Who would like to present evidence first? You! You brought the head of a creature! You're not in chains. We'll start with you." They drag the creature's head forward. She takes the book from the archivist. "And speaking with Zeenoth here, it appears what you said is true. This creature is a dangerous, terrible fiend. And looking at it's apparent ability to feast on the essence of creatures, this explains both the transformation of the old man. This also explains destruction of our two guards, who were recently discovered. Rest their soul. So, that explains that. Convince me as to why you were not working with this entity, especially those of the carnival." She snaps her finger again and you watch as Gustav and Bosun are brought into the chamber, as well as a third figure who you see step out of the shadows. Her hair dark and fading to white, last seen fleeing into the distant fields, you see, in chains as well, Yasha being pulled into the courtroom. (cheering)
Travis: Showing up just to get arrested!
Marisha: Welcome to the club!
Liam: (singing) Breaking the law, breaking the law!
Taliesin: Lot of help you were!
Marisha: Welcome to the chain gang.
Ashley: Hey. Yeah.
Matt: "That one was caught fleeing from the scene."
Ashley: No, that's completely a misunderstanding of things. That's not what happened.
Matt: "I'm certain. You have a trustworthy face. What's the next bit of evidence you want to present, please? Anyone?"
Liam: Well, first a question. Are you familiar with Occam's Razor?
Matt: "What?"
Liam: I figured. Okay. That one works for the circus. Do I look like I work for the circus?
Matt: "Strangely, not well dressed enough."
Liam: No. I'm a dirty hobo and I reek like yesterday's garbage.
Matt: "I wasn't going to go that far, but I'll admiss it."
Liam: Yeah. This one, does he look like a circus performer? Is he filthy like me?
Laura: He's not here.
Matt: "Which one?" Fjord has not arrived yet.
Liam: But he's right here! Look, I can touch him.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of that, as you say that and reveal your hand, Fjord enters through the door like it was a planned arrival.
Sam: Weirdly, he's dripping wet.
Travis: Baby oil.
Liam: The sardonic one, right? With the shit-eating grin. Does she look like she works for the circus?
Matt: "I don't know what she works for, but I don't trust her."
Marisha: That's smart.
Liam: I am injured within a centimeter of my life. This one is a nincompoop.
Laura: Wait, which one were you pointing at?
Liam: That's you. I pull the mask away. This is my good friend. She's a goblin.
Sam: A little halfling girl!
Matt: At this point, you watch her pull back.
Liam: I step in front of her. She is my friend and colleague and you will not lay a hand on her while I am standing here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Fucking right I will. That is an 11. (chanting) Level two!
Marisha: (chanting) Shitty dice!
Matt: Her eyes are chained onto this goblin.
Liam: She's looking into my chest because Nott is behind me. I'm sorry, I'm confused why you're going to such lengths to defend the rights of this large, oversized frog skull.
Matt: "I defend no rights of this creature! I've been in this office long enough to know that there aren't usually solo workers on something like this. I know these folk. They all protect each other. Who's to say this wasn't their whole reasoning for coming anyway, and something went wrong, and they're letting him take the fall?"
Liam: There's a big conspiracy to make undead crownsguard here in the city?
Matt: "I don't fucking know! Don't tell me how I do my business! Sit the fuck down! Who's next?"
Taliesin: You're right. We do protect our own. That's absolutely true.
Matt: "Let him up." They loosen the chains and you get to stand and approach a bit.
Taliesin: It's a common tactic. It's a good way to make your way through this world. Normally it works. We assumed, the circus, anyway, that we were being framed. We were protecting our own. Is the head in here?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: This one showed his true colors, and then we took care of it. I'm going to throw one of my swords down on the ground that is filthy with its blood.
Matt: "All right. Why did this one run?"
Ashley: Well--
Sam: (high-pitched) I mean--
Ashley: I feel like I didn't need to be in there anymore. You know. I don't-- ugh.
Matt: I would like you both to make persuasion checks.
Ashley: I feel like--
Taliesin: Oh, shit. 12.
Ashley: 11.
Taliesin: We needed someone on the outside. We knew we were innocent. We knew you didn't think so. We just assumed you were going to have us all executed and we didn't do anything. What would you have done?
Matt: "Is that goblin pissing in my court?" (laughter)
Sam: I'm sorry! I'm really nervous!
Taliesin: In his defense, it's a wonderful vintage. Her defense.
Sam: I'm very nervous. I'm sorry, it's just your guards shackled both my wrists and my ankles and I can't move to get into a good position.
Liam: You know, when she's nervous she aerates her bladder, all right?
Sam: Look, I have some evidence to submit. Look at my hands and also the hands of Jester. We're covered in the thing's blood. We were there too. We helped the killing of the creature.
Matt: The dwarf woman, Norda, leans forward and looks you dead in the eyes. "I've known friends I grew up with who were carved down by your kin. Convince me why I shouldn't hang you tomorrow."
Sam: I'm sorry for your loss. Where are your people from?
Matt: "Grimgolir."
Sam: That's not where my clan's from. I had nothing to do with it. My clan operates far, far away and--
Matt: "Where does your clan operate from?"
Sam: I'm looking on the map. Near the Felderwin Tillage.
Matt: "That's not too far. Maybe we'll send some folks to pay a visit to your clan."
Sam: You can. Feel free. I'll even tell you where they are. I'm no longer associated with them and I can help you hunt them down if you'd like.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Wow.
Laura: What is it?
Sam: One.
Laura: No, but you didn't roll a one. He rolled a four.
Sam: It's not a natural one.
Laura: Not a natural one.
Taliesin: Not a natural one.
Liam: Still sucks.
Matt: (sigh)
Laura: God, why are we rolling so bad?
Matt: She leans back. "I want to sleep. I think you're telling the truth. Most of you. Archivist, does this resonate with you as well? Does this check out, lore-wise? I don't know what the fuck you do." The Archivist is like, "I believe based on what they've stated, at least it's consistent though I'm a bit confused as to the demeanor of the goblin. It's not unheard of to have goblin kin turn against their own. There have been a number of historic individuals of various monstrous races who have been beneficial members of society."
Liam: I invite Nott up to my piggy-back position on my shoulders.
Laura: You can't, she's chained up.
Liam: I scoop her up.
Sam: This is even more awkward. Just put me back down. Put me back down.
Liam: Just let it happen.
Sam: No! The chains are pulling me one way and you're pulling me the other way. Just come down to my level! Come down here!
Matt: "Bring the two others forward." They bring forward Gustav and Bosun. "This is your circus, right?" He goes, "It is my circus and I take full responsibility for what's happened. Sincerely. They have done nothing wrong. They are completely innocent. I brought this creature into our fold and that is on me. Whatever judgement you have, bring onto my head, not theirs. Please. I implore you." "Fine. I'll consider the investigation closed. You're all freed of charges against you. Including the goblin."
Sam: Oh! Thank you! I would kiss you if I could.
Matt: "I would not recommend trying. Okay. Gustav, what's-- I can't read your last name. You've been given quite a debt for Trostenwald so you shall remain here until you've worked off the debt to the city. To the number of 2,645 gold pieces. To make up for the deaths of our two crownsguard, of the two civilians who have died, and the general cost of this entire investigation. We'll consider what your work is to the city tomorrow. However, the rest of you: you're free to go. I'm going to go get myself some sleep."
Liam: Can I have my book back, please?
Matt: Takes her armor off. "(sigh) All right. I'm going to get a drink." She puts her cloak on and then hops off. With the imposing sight of her on top of a large pedestal and desk, she hops down to her natural dwarven height and it's almost adorable to watch her just skitter the hell out of there. She's done.
Laura: Where are you getting a drink at?
Matt: There's no response.
Laura: Do you want company?
Travis: I just turn to the nearest crownsguard and--
Matt: The chains are removed. They free everybody, including Gustav, but two guards are assigned to him to keep an eye over him.
Marisha: As soon as Beau gets out of her chains, I grab my stuff and I leave.
Matt: Okay. As you are exiting the stockade, in the archway of the doors right outside, you see another figure standing hood up-- like a short hood with a mantle that stops about midway. Bare arms and dark skin, baggy gray pants and is there, waiting.
Marisha: What's the mantle?
Matt: You don't recognize any details about it. You see a cloaked figure there, waiting, looking right at you.
Marisha: Is he blocking the doorway?
Matt: Is just beyond the doorway. It's not blocked.
Marisha: Is there another way out?
Matt: I mean, you can exit. They're just on the other side of the door. Every other way in, you don't know the stockade well and all of it just leads further into the stockade. There are other crownsguard inside.
Marisha: Okay, I'm just going to try and just bolt through.
Matt: You're just going to bolt? Full run?
Marisha: Not run, just you know, Irish goodbye.
Matt: Okay. All right. As you briskly exit and turn to the left, the figure intervenes and side steps right in front of you.
Marisha: Do I recognize him?
Matt: No. You don't see much of the face. The hood is up and a little bit of the moonlight is coming, you can see the edge of features. The body is muscular, but thin. Looks not terribly masculine or feminine, but it looks able and it moved at a very quick speed to intercept your positioning.
Marisha: I just go  Oh, fuck! Turn around and walk back in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'll join everyone else. I flick off the guy on my way back in.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are being escorted out of the stockade, Beau comes back in and joins you.
Laura: I thought you left.
Marisha: Just had to pee.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: Shame.
Laura: Hey, you guys, we're town heroes! What's it feel like?
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah!
Laura: Yasha, it's very good to see you again.
Ashley: It's good to see you guys, too.
Sam: Where did you go? Were you on the lam for a long time?
Ashley: I have a little bit of a problem with authority and I didn't want to be caught in a small and confined space and then that ended up happening.
Laura: How long have you been in there?
Ashley: Immediately after I ran away. They sent out horses. I'm not that fast, but I did fuck up a few of the guards. "By accident. "
Matt: As you say that, you hear a couple (clears throat) and two of the crownsguard visibly bruised that are escorting you guys out into the night air before they eventually leave you to your own devices.
Travis: Molly, what do you think this means for the carnival?
Taliesin: I don't know. That is a question.
Laura: I mean, if Gustav has to stay here then who's going to run it?
Marisha: That's a lot of gold. That's like a life sentence worth of gold.
Laura: Well, I mean--
Taliesin: Gold comes, gold goes.
Liam: How much do you think the circus has?
Taliesin: I don't know how much the circus has and, honestly, I think Ornna would lie about it if we asked.
Matt: The crownsguard have pulled away and now it's just you guys and Bosun and Gustav now, out in the air and Gustav is rubbing his wrists. "Well, thank you everyone for helping. That could have been a lot worse. And, you know, it's fine. I know it's a lot of money, but shouldn't take me more than a few years. It's a nice town! Trostenwald is a nice town!"
Travis: It's not that nice.
Matt: "No, it's not, but you know, it's better than prison."
Laura: There's a lot of beer here.
Matt: "That there is. I may have to start a small fund for that on its own."
Liam: What happens to the circus, because, you know, you can't do the same show for the same people for a year?
Matt: "Where's Ornna? Where's the twins? Where's--"
Taliesin: Well, the twins buggered. Ornna? God only knows.
Ashley: Where's Toya?
Taliesin: Toya is back at the circus, but shaken. Very shaken.
Matt: At which point, Gustav just begins making a beeline for the circus. Bosun goes, "Oh." (sighs)
Taliesin: How hard can it be to make 2,000 gold?
Matt: "I don't know how much he saved. Nowhere near that much, probably."
Taliesin: How hard can it be to steal 2,000 gold?
Laura: I don't know how many people around here have that much. Although, the breweries might.
Taliesin: Maybe be best to find that gold elsewhere.
Ashley: Wait, so who killed him?
Matt: Gustav has spun around and comes back and is like, "Sincerely. I appreciate the aid, but don't. This is on me. I'll take care of it. This is not your responsibility. It's not your responsibility. You guys have already done so much. It's fine. I'll take care of it."
Taliesin: Suppose we should take a look at what's left of the circus.
Marisha: Can I go take a look around? Do I see Zeenoth anywhere?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Oh, god damn it, it was almost better. It was almost good. Ten.
Matt: Ten? You don't see anybody immediately around.
Laura: Was that Archivist Zeenoth that was outside?
Marisha: Archivist.
Laura: That's what I said. Was that who it was that was like--
Matt: No, Zeenoth was still inside the courtroom when you were leaving.
Marisha: Yeah. Different guy.
Laura: Oh, who was it that was outside?
Liam: We don't know, we didn't see him.
Travis: It's very late, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's post-midnight now.
Laura: I'm so tired.
Travis: Don't suppose you want to retire for the evening? Share a drink together now that this is somewhat behind us?
Taliesin: I will definitely drink. I think we should probably drink at our camp then. I'm fine inviting them.
Matt: "Tell you what. As a thanks, we'll grab Toya. We'll meet you guys-- where are you all staying?"
Marisha: The Nestled Nook.
Liam: The Nestled Nook.
Matt: "We'll come meet you at the Nestled Nook and I'll get a round for you all. As a thank you."
Taliesin: Is this a human thing to-- never mind
Liam: Yeah, we're just like tieflings, we're all alike.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: "All right. Bosun, come on." They make their way off to the carnival camp.
Ashley: It was him?
Taliesin: Kylre went bad. Maybe he'd already always been bad, I don't know.
Laura: I mean, he attacked us. A lot of guards, too.
Sam: He was an evil fiend. When he joined the circus, who brought him in?
Taliesin: Let's not be throwing words around.
Sam: No, he was literally an evil fiend.
Laura: He summoned imps.
Taliesin: He did summon--
Laura: He summoned imps, Yasha!
Sam: He controlled the girl!
Taliesin: He was fine for years. Something set him off.
Liam: Ah, he said it himself, you people in the circus are weird, right? So, every once in a while, a glitch.
Marisha: A glitch? What?
Taliesin: He was fine for so long. There was nothing for so long. Why? Things don't just...
Marisha: I still think there's something creepy about this lake, man.
Taliesin: Maybe?
Marisha: It gives me the heebie jeebies.
Taliesin: Everything gives me the heebie jeebies.
Liam: Well, if it is this thing that we've read about in the book, then perhaps he needed to feed more or was impatient for some reason?
Ashley: What's happened with Toya?
Taliesin: Shite.
Ashley: How is she?
Taliesin: She is not good. She is taking it as you would expect.
Sam: Also Beau crushed her windpipe.
Taliesin: That's true. With her stick.
Liam: And, I'm sorry, are we also taking the bouncer into our little coven of weirdos. Is that a thing that's happening?
Ashley: Oh, well--
Taliesin: Always.
Ashley: I mean, I kind of go on my own, but--
Marisha: Yeah, she's one of us.
Taliesin: She's the charm, she has to come!
Liam: I'm too tired to argue. Let's get that drink.
Taliesin: See, charm. Drink.
Matt: As you make your way back to the Nestled Nook Inn, within the tavern, and within the next hour or so, Gustav and Bosun, Toya and Ornna all come in and join you. You guys crowd a few tables together, and under what is generally a pretty empty tavern this night, you guys, for the most part, dominate the center space.
Travis: I'm sorry, Yasha, for new patrons, you're going to have to surrender your sword.
Ashley: (laughs) You're very funny.
Taliesin: He is very funny.
Liam: That is a very sick burn.
Marisha: Speaking of swords--
Laura: Careful Fjord, we haven't been healed yet, you know. She could take you down.
Ashley: You could always try to take it.
Taliesin: Arm wrestle.
Travis: I could, couldn't I?
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: Arm wrestle!
Ashley: You do look pretty strong. I mean, you're just a little bit bigger than me, but I still think I could probably take you.
Travis: Looks could be deceiving.
Marisha: Arm wrestle! Bets on Yasha.
Laura: Do it! Arm wrestle!
Travis: I just thought it would be a nice gesture.
Laura: To arm wrestle?
Travis: No, to give up her sword.
Ashley: What about your sword?
Travis: Oh, I'm a paying patron here. They know me quite well.
Taliesin: So? You've got to be putting something on the table, though. Well, if you want to surrender the sword or not surrender the sword.
Travis: Did you want to stay in that room any longer, Molly?
Taliesin: (laughs) Never.
Marisha: I don't know what we're talking about anymore.
Laura: I don't either.
Travis: Let's get a drink.
Marisha: Are you guys going to arm wrestle?
Travis: No.
Marisha: Okay. How about "Boulder, Paper, Shears"? Wait, what is it? "Boulder, Parchment, Shears"!
Taliesin: That's a stupid game.
Sam: I never heard of that game.
Ashley: I think it's something that kids play. I have a better version of that game. We can play it later.
Matt: The rest of the carnival in presence, Gustav goes and orders a round of drinks to all of you and then sits down. Toya still looks a bit shaken, but seems to be comforted with the rest of the family around her, that still remain at least. Desmond's come and joined as well. As you're all sitting together for a bit, there's a moment of quiet as you're all sipping, and just tiredly thinking over the events of the evening. Toya breaks the silence, "Is the family going away? Am I going to be alone again?" Ornna looks over at her and goes, "Not if I can help it. It's you and me, kid, against the world." Bosun pats Ornna on the shoulder and says, "Well, if you'd have me, you can probably use a strong arm." Ornna looks back at him. Ornna and him have had this rivalry tension for a while. She goes, "You know what? Sure. The trio makes for a strong pack of performers. Desmond, are you in?" And Desmond is just sitting there, staring into his cup and goes, "I see a new family before me. And one I fear that's a story I could only spoil. No, I thank you, but I'll find my own path." And he just sits there kind of quietly in this somewhat sad space. He gives a brief pat and side hug to Bosun before standing up and leaving. Gustav stands up and looks around. "I'm sorry for everything. For all the pain this has caused you, for all the pain it's caused you." Looks at Toya, "For all the pain it's caused you, little one."
Travis: We had quite the adventure, actually. I know people were hurt, but that was really something.
Marisha: And apparently, nobody really cared about Enon, so that's, you know, good for your conscience.
Matt: "Everyone's conscience is heavy with its own reasoning."
Taliesin: Get no blame from me.
Matt: "I appreciate that. We are our own worst enemy, are we not?"
Taliesin: Ah, cheers to that!
Liam: I catch Nott's eye and silently mouth the word 'lunatics'.
Sam: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: "Well, I think that's the end of my carnival." (laughs)
Laura: It was such a good carnival.
Matt: "It was a good run! It was a really good run."
Marisha: Man, we caught the last show, you guys!
Taliesin: Not our best show.
Laura: I liked it.
Sam: The tickets are probably worth something!
Marisha: They might!
Travis: Closed it down.
Marisha: I'm gonna keep this flyer.
Taliesin: You have plans?
Ashley: No, I'm just going to float around like I usually do.
Taliesin: I don't know, I'm thinking about it. I don't know where I'm going to end up now.
Matt: "You can go with Bosun and Ornna, if you like. You guys are still carrying on. I mean, I'm not going to keep the tent, I'm not going to keep the supplies. I might hock some of it to try and pay off my debt, but-- take what you want. Start anew. It's my gift to you." They all kind of, "Thank you very much. We'll start small, I don't think we need too much of the ensemble. How we began, back up in Shady Creek."
Laura: I mean, I could use a really large tent. Like the biggest one? I would take that off your hands.
Taliesin: The biggest one's a bit--
Travis: What would you do with a really large tent?
Laura: I don't know, I could open up a hotel? Or I could make a bunch of dresses. Or--
Sam: Out of the tent?
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: You could make a lot of dresses out of that tent. That's fair.
Laura: Yeah, right? It's really pretty fabric.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: (gasps) A hot air balloon!
Taliesin: I don't--
Liam: A what?
Sam: Those aren't invented.
Laura: Haven't you seen airships?
Sam: No!
Liam: They generally run from crystals. I've seen that kind before.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: Yeah, there's no balloons, though. What's a balloon?
Matt: They have simple dirigibles, but they're not very functional.
Laura: Yeah, it just involves fire you guys. We can figure this shit out.
Liam: Oh, a dirigible? Dirigible I've heard of, but a balloon? I don't know what that is.
Marisha: Have the airships made it to this continent yet?
Liam: You don't know.
Sam: I think, Jester--
Laura: I've seen airships, okay? I've seen them.
Sam: Jester, I think it's safe to say that this first case is closed!
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: So we could open some sort of private investigation service.
Laura: That's what we should do!
Sam: Out of a tent.
Laura: Let's not open it here, though. This town sucks!
Travis: Yeah, we were still planning on moving on after this.
Matt: "Bosun and Ornna, you guys can use that tent, right?" "Yeah, I think we'll take the tent." "All right."
Sam: Aw, they took the tent.
Laura: Aw. We waited too long!
Sam: You got to jump on the tent when it becomes available.
Liam: You know, just out of curiosity, what's everybody plan to do now?
Sam: Well do we have to leave? I mean I'm not wanted anymore.
Liam: You were never wanted. Back to my question--
Laura: Fjord and I are going to try and get him into the Academy.
Travis: Well, I wanted to find out more about the Soltrice Academy, yes. I didn't know what direction you were heading. I never even asked what you were doing here in the first place.
Marisha: Oh, you know, I'm just doing a walking tour? Through the continent, just kind of--
Travis: A walking tour?
Marisha: Yeah, just like a backpack vacation, you know? Just stretch my legs a little bit. Meeting some fine people. Discovering myself.
Travis: Are you on a vacation?
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: Bring a lot of money with you for that vacation, did you?
Marisha: What's it matter to you?
Travis: I don't believe you're on vacation. Where are you going?
Marisha: (laughs) That's your problem. So, you guys going to take off or do you guys want company or-- ?
Matt: Gustav finishes the drink and goes, "Well, I'm going to go get some sleep and try and figure out how to put my life together. I bid you all a wonderful night--"
Laura: Gustav, wait! Here. And I take off one of my rings. This is an old family heirloom, and I hope it can help you pay some of your debt.
Taliesin: I want to spy the rings on her hand, by the way, really quickly.
Matt: "Looks just like the one I lost off my pinky."
Laura: Well, that's so weird that you and my family have the same looking ones.
Matt: "That's wonderful, thank you so much."
Laura: You're welcome.
Matt: "That's very sweet."
Taliesin: I want to look at the other rings she picked up, not that she's wearing right now.
Laura: They're right here. You can get a look at them!
Matt: They're all over her fingers.
Taliesin: They are obviously rings from random dead people, aren't they?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm just putting that together.
Laura: I play dinosaur fights.
Matt: Gustav puts his hat on. "Yasha, be safe, and punch anyone who gets in your way."
Ashley: I will.
Matt: "Mollymauk, I hope you find what you're looking for."
Taliesin: I think I will.
Matt: "To the new family, don't make the same mistakes your forefathers did. The rest of you, thank you."
Laura: (whispers) He said forefathers.
Sam: (whispers) That's progressive. (laughter)
Matt: "I bid you all adieu," and he exits.
Laura: What are you looking for, Molly?
Taliesin: Hmm, I'm not quite done with this one. We'll see.
Ashley: Toya.
Matt: Bosun and Ornna stood up and Toya is there, "Yeah?"
Ashley: What are your plans? What do you want to do?
Matt: "I figure I'll just move on with Bo and Ornna and make a new show. Something with a little less death. That's what I'd like."
Laura: You should make your way to the Menagerie Coast. I think you guys would have a lot of success in Nicodranas.
Matt: "I haven't been to Nicodranas."
Laura: It's beautiful.
Matt: She looks up and tugs on the side of Bosun's sleeve. "You know, I actually haven't been there either."
Laura: They're always looking for good performers. You would do well.
Matt: "Hmm. Let's go ahead and make our way. That sounds like a nice change of pace, and this empire is getting a little stuffy for me anyway."
Marisha: I've bend down to Toya, and I take off one of the little jade bangles around my wrist, and I say, "Here. This will keep you safe from assholes named Beau. Except for that asshole, named Bo. He's a good Bo, but all other assholes named Beau."
Matt: You watch as Ornna elbows him and is like, "Oh, no, he's an asshole too. It's fine."
Taliesin: It's true.
Marisha: Sorry. Sorry again about that.
Matt: She takes it and goes, "It's okay. I know you did what you had to. But when I'm older, I'm going to get you back."
Marisha: You better.
Laura: Your first nemesis!
Marisha: My first nemesis!
Matt: Is a twelve year old girl! (laughter)
Marisha: I give her a little chin (weak punch sound).
Travis: She goes unconscious. (laughter)
Marisha: Aw, why? No!
Matt: The three of them stand up and give a nod, wordlessly look over the rest of you with a smile of thanks, and Bosun looks to you and makes eye contact and goes, "Take care, brother. It gets tougher for us up north."
Travis: I'll keep that in mind.
Matt: And they all leave the inn.
Ashley: I mean, I'll say it. I don't know if you will, but I think that little girl is creepy. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh no, she's had a thing the entire time. There was a little while I thought she was in on it completely.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, she might have been.
Taliesin: I've known her for years. I just assumed that she was in on it.
Laura: She could've been in on it, and just got right away with it.
Taliesin: Yeah. That would be great.
Laura: She's good.
Marisha: For her, yeah, I mean I got to give it to her, yeah.
Taliesin: You know, no matter what you pick, you're always welcome, right?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Wherever you end up.
Ashley: Maybe for a little bit, but I've got some things I need do, so.
Laura: Do you guys want to travel with me and Fjord?
Ashley: Where are you going, again?
Travis: Up north. Northeast to the Solstryce Academy.
Liam: Straight there.
Taliesin: Northeast. I've always wanted to go there.
Ashley: Where's... where northeast?
Laura: Um... (chuckles)
Sam: We're here. (laughter)
Matt: Well technically, you don't have a map.
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: We should really get a map, you guys. I haven't spent a lot of time in this area and I don't really know where we're going.
Travis: We're kind of going from town to town and asking as we go. Afraid we don't know too much.
Laura: I wonder if there's a place-- maybe at the general store? They would have a map? Or do you have to go to a map maker?
Taliesin: Traditionally, you have to go to a map maker.
Matt: Traditionally but it can depend.
Taliesin: We might have a bit of something at the circus, I don't know.
Ashley: I would love a map.
Laura: We'll go looking for things tomorrow. We can go shopping.
Ashley: Okay. We'll go shopping with you.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Where are you guys heading off to? Seems like people are making pretty big plans.
Travis: There's safety in numbers, you know?
Liam: Yeah. Took the words out of my mouth.
Laura: Nott, don't you want to travel with us, too?
Sam: Um, is she coming?
Laura: Yeah, she just said she was.
Ashley: Oh, are you scared of me?
Sam: A little bit. You're very big.
Ashley: Well, I thought you were Nott, the Brave?
Sam: Oh. No, there's no comma.
Laura: (laughs)
Sam: I'm just Nott the Brave. (laughter)
Liam: I don't know. You know, Nott and I have been travelling together for a while and two is better than one, although still very difficult.
Marisha: How long ago was it that you guys broke out of prison?
Liam: Uh... you know, it was six months ago, about. Five, six months ago.
Marisha: Damn, you guys are doing good.
Taliesin: Insight check.
Matt: Against--
Taliesin: Five or six months ago.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, that was so close.
Taliesin: 14.
Sam: You have to roll, don't you?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll either persuasion or deception. You can choose. Don't--
Liam: I'll do persuasion.
Matt: I mean, you don't have to say but you did. That's fine.
Liam: That's uh, I don't know where on my character sheet is. That's also a 14.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: All right, so seems on the level.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: (laughs)
Travis: Broke out of prison? That's very impressive.
Sam: Well, it was mainly Caleb. We had to get out. I mean, it was a bad place.
Laura: Were they going to kill you?
Sam: We would have died, for sure.
Ashley: But you guys were there together? Because you knew each other before?
Liam: Well, first of all, she's being modest. It was not just me at all, I could not have gotten out of there without you. I don't think you could have gotten out of there without me either but you know.
Sam: That's true, for sure.
Liam: That's why I said two. Better than one. One is the loneliest number.
Laura: That you'll ever see.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: There's nothing wrong with being alone.
Liam: You know, normally I wouldn't feel comfortable talking about shit like this but you are all very shifty.
Laura: I'm very trustworthy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: No, no, no, you're shifty as well. Yeah.
Taliesin: It's true.
Travis: In the short time we've spent with you, you seem to be very upstanding folks. I'm sure it wasn't for anything too serious.
Liam: No, nothing serious at all, really. I was too curious. She was maybe a little thirsty. You know, petty stuff.
Sam: But they treated us very badly and we needed to get out of there.
Liam: We all know how this country works.
Marisha: And where was 'there'?
Travis: Yeah, is there anywhere we should stay away from on our travels?
Liam: (clears throat)
Sam: Any place is-- I mean, we've been travelling around a bit but--
Liam: You know, I wouldn't go west, maybe.
Taliesin: Northwest.
Sam: I'm told east is bad too. There's monsters.
Liam: Yeah and they're pretty terrible in the north. That's no secret.
Laura: So we go south?
Sam: Oh no, not south. (laughter)
Ashley: It just depends where in the south, actually.
Taliesin: I'd be happy keeping a bit of a low-key existence.
Laura: Well, I mean we are vigilantes so it's best if we, you know, have our secrets.
Taliesin: Some of us are a bit sketchy with the law.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Mollymauk, you're comfortable leaving the circus? You are very-- you have a lot of flair.
Taliesin: Well, I figured if you're going to live your life, you're going to live your life.
Laura: (jingling)
Taliesin: Does do that. There's nothing wrong with living your life. You only get one of them, or mostly. And your days are going to be the days that you're going to have and I'd like to keep living my life the way I'd like to and keep off of certain radars.
Marisha: Cheers to that.
Laura: Yeah. Life does need things to live. (laughter)
Taliesin: Stupid phrase.
Liam: That doesn't make any sense at all.
Taliesin: Really stupid.
Travis: Who said that?
Liam: I mean, it does but it blatantly obvious and simplistic. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's just ridiculous. (laughter)
Taliesin: That felt so good. That's catharsis.
Travis: Yasha, anywhere that we should avoid for you?
Ashley: You know. I'm just-- I'll make my way wherever we go and maybe I'll not stay with you the whole time but I don't like, you know--
Travis: Being confined.
Ashley: Yeah. I don't-- groups and things--
Marisha: Are you claustrophobic?
Ashley: Uh, no.
Marisha: You mentioned the smaller cl--cramped space in the cell. Just curious.
Laura: Clamp space?
Marisha: Clamps-- clampy space.
Taliesin: Clam space.
Ashley: I like to have my freedom.
Liam: I mean, technically this is a group. You mean groups bigger than this group or is this group too claustrophobic for you or-- ?
Ashley: No. I don't mean it like that. I just want to make my own way sometimes.
Marisha: Not tied down to anything but that cloak, am I right?
Ashley: (chuckles) Yeah, that's right.
Laura: Speaking of cloaks, mine smells really bad.
Sam: It was on top of a head. Ugh, that's really gross.
Laura: I'm going to go try to find somewhere to wash it.
Matt: Upstairs at the end of the hallway is a communal washroom. You can find space there.
Laura: Hey Caleb!
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: You know what's upstairs? (laughter)
Laura: This place where I'm going to go wash some stuff. You could use it.
Taliesin: You smell fine.
Laura: (chuckles)
Marisha: (chuckles)
Sam: I like you just the way you are.
Laura: You're bloody now, too, in addition to being stinky.
Taliesin: You should probably get that patched up, actually, though. That is fair.
Liam: (clears throat)
Marisha: Yeah, I actually feel like you're starting to get a rash. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, I'm good, thank you. (laughter)
Travis: Damn right. (laughter)
Matt: All right.
Sam: Well, I suppose we should all go to sleep and then if any of us are here in the morning, we'll set off together?
Travis: That seems fair.
Taliesin: I'm all right with that. Collect our things from-- my things, anyway, from the circus. There should be some spares.
Liam: Do we have time to-- look at this, we're making plans with friends, that's amazing. Do we have for errands in the morning? I have a couple stops. Nothing major.
Taliesin: Take me a while to pack.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: You guys want me to tag along with you?
Travis: If you weren't too anxious to run off anywhere.
Marisha: (chuckles, clears throat) No. I'm free on my backpack tour. No plans.
Travis: Right. Any sightseeing we should schedule along our way?
Marisha: Maybe avoid Zadash just because I just came there, you know. Don't want to hit the same place twice.
Travis: Zadash?
Marisha: Yup.
Travis: Keep that in mind. (laughter)
Taliesin: Note, note, note.
Matt: As you guys are all finishing your drinks and standing up to leave the table, a familiar voice pipes in from the center of the tavern. "Beauregard?"
Marisha: (groans)
Matt: And the Archivist who was there earlier during the trial in the stockade. "It's been difficult to find you. Do you mind if we speak?"
Marisha: Hey, Zeenoth! Hey. It's been all of about twenty minutes since I've seen you last.
Matt: "Yes, um, would you walk with me? I believe we have much to discuss."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Don't worry. She'll be returned to you. Just--"
Travis: You all right with this?
Marisha: It's cool. I've got it.
Taliesin: We don't care. We're not that attached yet.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: "All right then. This way please, Beauregard."
Marisha: (sighs)
Matt: The elvish man gives a bow and he seems jovial. (laughter)
Taliesin: More mine, more mine!
Matt: Beau leaves and you guys are able to go about the rest of your evening to rest however you see fit.
Liam: Way up after Nott has gone, I go over to Norda. Is Norda down there?
Sam: Yorda.
Liam: No, there's two people with rhyming names.
Marisha: Yorda is the bartender.
Matt: Yorda is the bartender.
Liam: This is revenge for Vex and Vax.
Matt: Yeah, and Purvon.
Liam: I find the purveyor of the establishment.
Matt: Yorda.
Liam: Mork from Ork, that's what I said.
Matt: "Right, what can I help you with?"
Liam: Excuse me, is there-- I know you have a bath here, but is there a hot bath place like a bathhouse? I'm bruised over every inch of my body and I'm in a lot of pain.
Matt: "Right, that'll probably be in the Hillsward. It's a bit pricey, but I don't know if it's open this late."
Liam: I know, but how much are we talking about?
Matt: "Oh, I'd put it maybe somewhere in the neighborhood of five silver for a bath."
Liam: That's expensive.
Matt: "But you get bathed like proper, multiple people bathing you."
Liam: Northward, you say?
Matt: "No, Hillsward."
Liam: Okay, good.
Matt: "I mean, no offense to you. Their clientele is a bit, upper class."
Liam: I'm not worried.
Matt: "Alright, fair enough."
Liam: Danke. And I head up there.
Matt: Okay. Beau, as you exit with Zeenoth. As soon as you step into the night air, a second figure flanks your other side. The hooded figure from earlier that had caught you.
Marisha: I just look at Zeenoth and go really? Is this really necessary?
Matt: "It is only because it's been so difficult to find you. I had to call in a favor. Please, come with us. We have a warehouse."
Marisha: Do we have to with this guy? He fucking-- look at him. He looks shifty.
Matt: The head turns to you in the hood and you see dark elvish features. A bald head as the hood comes back. What looks to be a female elf of very lithe form who turns to you and goes, "Actually, it is a woman, but I'll ignore that."
Marisha: Sorry, you're super covered-- literally saw no features until right now.
Matt: "It is fine."
Marisha: You're very attractive though. (laughter)
Matt: And she walks ahead of you and the two of you begin to make your way there. They're guiding you towards the Northward and as you step into the dark following their lead, we're going to take a break. (cheering)
Marisha: I smell bad y'all.
Travis: Do you?
Marisha: Don't. You were like, oh my cape smells bad and I was like RPing and I like, ooh. (laughter)
Taliesin: Everybody at home, grab your ticket you got in the mail. Scratch off number three. (laughter)
Matt: We'll be back here in a few minutes. For those of you who want to enter the Wyrmwood giveaway, tonight it's a special Valentine's Day promotion from our friends at Wyrmwood. They have four types of dice vaults to choose from where they translate your Valentine Day's message in Elvish. (gasping)
Travis: Damn that shit glows!
Matt: So you have some golden Evish stuff there.
Laura: It's pretty and you can choose the wood.
Liam: The writing only shows up if you throw it in fire. (laughter)
Matt: Don't listen to Liam. To whoever is the winner of this or any of these, they'll go ahead and get you the contact information for Wyrmwood so they can customize your phrase. If you want to be part of this giveaway over the break, make sure to use the keyword toad. T-O-A-D in the chatroom. There's also apparently an anti-Valentine's Day Drow vault they do as well. It's pretty cool. Check them out at wyrmwoodgaming.com but if you want to enter that, the codeword is toad. Only enter once please in the Twitch chat because if you do more than once, you'll be disqualified. Wait for them to notify you over the break and we'll come back with the winner when we return.
Marisha: They gave us an amazing matching set with the Elvis-- Elvish for our wedding. It was super sweet. Thanks Wyrmwood. Elvis from Memphis.
Matt: (Elvis impression) "Oh that was a natural 20." We'll see you guys in a little bit. (cheering) [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. Before we jump back in, we have our winner from the chat. The winner is Piamo_Feddie! If I am reading this correctly, Piamo_Feddie. Congratulations! Danoba will get your contact information, we'll get that sent out to you. Well done, and happy Valentine's Day. Now jumping back into the game, I would like to ask everyone but Marisha to leave the table, please.
Marisha: See you, guys.
Travis: Don't die!
Marisha: This is so scary! So nerve wracking.
Matt: Beauregard.
Marisha: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Quietly, they walk you through the night air, through the Northward, to a familiar place: the outskirts of the Baumbauch Family Brewery. There's a slight opening on the side warehouse doors where you had previously worked when you first arrived at Trostenwald, and Archivist Zeenoth gestures for you to enter. "Please. If you don't mind, my dear."
Marisha: Really? Is this what got me caught, working for these fucking assholes? Ugh. I walk in.
Matt: There is a single glowing lantern that is currently hanging from a rope that is strewn across the ceiling of the warehouse that gives a central source of light to the room. It causes the shadows to stretch out very long across the sides.
Marisha: What is this?
Matt: As you walk in and turn around, the door is closed. The two figures approach. The female elf goes and takes a chair and sets it in the center beneath the lantern. "Please, have a seat."
Marisha: I'd prefer to stand.
Matt: She just sits back, about 20 or so feet, and leans against one of the large stacks of crates as Zeenoth approaches you. "Now, Beauregard. You have been what the Archive would call a problematic student."
Marisha: (laughter)
Matt: "I've had to pull in quite a bit of a favor--"
Marisha: Sorry. (laughter) Keep going. I'm listening.
Matt: "Since I have been assigned to your tutelage, overseeing your progress and training, you've shown great promise, in many ways. You're a seeker of truth, and you have a keen sense for manipulations and falsehoods. Correct?"
Marisha: Thanks?
Matt: "When the Archive took you in at the behest of your family, you agreed to undergo our discipline. Our lifestyle."
Marisha: No, I didn't agree to shit. You took me in because I'm assuming my father paid you a pretty nice sum of coin to make sure that you took me in. I'm assuming that coin is no longer coming to the Reserve, so, why do you care?
Matt: "Believe it or not, not everyone does what they do in this world for coin. We see possibility in you. We, wish to prevent you from blowing out your own flame. Your tendencies clash with our teachings, your dislike for authority."
Marisha: Yeah, I thought you guys hated me. Thought I was doing you a favor by leaving.
Matt: At which point, the woman from behind says, "Your dislike for authority is not a bad thing. It can keep you alive. Authority should always be questioned. Those with more power than you should be held to a higher standard."
Marisha: Thank you, authoritative figure who I am unaware of your name?
Matt: At which point, Zeenoth picks up, again, says, "But the way of the Knowing Mistress has an order of learning. Your patience is essential to adhering to this path. I know it may not be stimulating at times, but we must prepare your mind if we are ever to prepare your soul."
Marisha: Yeah, I'd say that sorting books and punching brick walls repeatedly can definitely not be stimulating at all times.
Matt: "Look, I just wish to--" At which point, the elven woman goes, "Enough. I've heard enough, Zeenoth. You are removed of your responsibility to oversee Beauregard." Zeenoth's eyes go wide. "This is not a student you can help. Return to Zadash." Zeenoth goes, "Expositor, I do not think that I have been given a fair shot. Please--" "I know this girl, because I see much of myself in her. You cannot reach her. Go." Zeenoth looks hurt. "I apologize that I failed you." He turns around and heads back towards the warehouse doors, which shift open, and close.
Marisha: The fuck was that?
Matt: The woman now steps forward.
Marisha: I feel like he made me look like an asshole, feel like an asshole. Fuck, maybe I'm an asshole.
Matt: "Maybe you're an asshole. You probably are an asshole. That's all right, because so am I. Because sometimes you need someone to be an asshole to get shit done."
Marisha: Being nice never did. What are we talking, stranger?
Matt: "I am Expositor Dairon, of the Cobalt Soul."
Marisha: Dairon?
Matt: D-A-I-R-O-N. "I take it you have heard of our station through whispers."
Marisha: Some people like to call you boogie men. I figured it was always real. In my opinion, the best way to hide in a secret organization is by having a boogie man.
Matt: "We are the hidden strength of the library, you are not wrong. We wade in the filth of society. We weed out the corrupt. We pursue the secret evils of the world, and expose them to the light."
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: "We twist the arm of the unjust, until they spill their mysteries. We are the spies. We are the hunters. We are the watchmen to those who rule. We are not kind. We are forthright. We are truth. Do you, Beauregard, want to see the truths of the world?"
Marisha: Oh god, I'm sorry. I have this burn in my butt from all the smoke you just blew up my ass. It's just, oh god. Is that a magical talent?
Matt: What's your armor class?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: You suffer ten points of bludgeoning damage as, out of nowhere, her fist hits you right across the side of your face.
Marisha: It takes me to the ground. That takes me to the ground.
Matt: You're unconscious?
Marisha: No, just takes me to the ground.
Matt: Okay. "Are you listening now?"
Marisha: Do I have a choice?
Matt: "Let me be your teacher."
Marisha: Oh, boy. Is that what I have to look forward to?
Matt: "No. What do you want to do now, that that's happened?"
Marisha: I kind of want to fucking punch you back.
Matt: "Then do it." "What's stopping you?"
Marisha: Now you have my attention. And I fucking punch her in the face!
Matt: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
Marisha: Just a straight unarmed, right?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 12 total, not good.
Matt: She dodges out of the way, and as you move past, plucks you in the back of the head with a knuckle. That hits. You take one point of bludgeoning damage. It's a very light tap.
Marisha: Ow! What the fuck, my dad used to do that type of shit.
Matt: With that, she rushes around with a rapid pace to the front of you, feints with an upper cut, and then goes to elbow you in the side of the head. That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Marisha: That misses. 17.
Matt: Misses. You manage to duck out of the way of it. She goes, "Good. Good."
Marisha: I got to add some points here.
Matt: Okay. She's going to go ahead and use her bonus action to go into a defensive stance. "Come on."
Marisha: (yells) I'm going to spend a ki point, and go into Flurry of Blows, and do a blind haymaker, a second blind haymaker, and then try and backhand with the third. Wildly, recklessly. Okay, first one. Natural 20!
Matt: Oh, shit!
Marisha: Second one. Natural 20!
Matt: Two natural 20s in a row!
Marisha: I don't have anyone sitting next to me to confirm this, but I swear it's a natural 20!
Matt: No, I can see it!
Marisha: I'll take a picture if I have to! A natural 17.
Matt: Roll damage on those first two!
Marisha: Okay. You double the dice, right?
Matt: Yeah. Roll the dice, double it.
Marisha: Okay. That was a three, a two, so five, ten plus eight. 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage. Then the third strike that hit?
Marisha: One, so another five points. God fucking-- Thinking of my dad, after she just went "boop," something just popping the back of my head.
Matt: You watch as her defensive stance, she's prepared for it, and as you go to swing, she lets it down at the last second, and lets you get some hits in. Wham, wham! But much stronger than she expected. The first one clocks her across the chin. The other one hits her across the temple. The last one--
Marisha: Just a wild backhand.
Matt: Just hits her in the back of the head. She stumbles for a second, then spins around. You can see a bit of blood trickling out of the corner of her mouth, and there's a little bit of a scrape of dirt on the side her head where you hit. She turns around. "Very good. You have learned some things in your time." She quickly advances on you. Hits. 18, hits. Okay. You take three points of bludgeoning damage, one per hit. Pop! Pop pop! She is basically going full in with the strike, and is just prodding you with these gentle little hits, showing control, showing that she's entirely able to overwhelm you, and she's hitting different places on your body, strategically. Because with each hit, you feel this burst of numbness in those vicinities. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Not great. That's a natural seven, so ten total.
Matt: Okay. After each hit, you gather yourself for a second, she stops and goes, "You are quick, and there is intelligence lying in there. You are also quite nimble at dodging blows. Do you see, with but a few simple strikes, I'm able to extract from you everything I need to know about you."
Marisha: What the fuck, why can't I feel my hand? What did you do?
Matt: "You see, brute force has its place. But precision, and intent. That can take down the greatest of mountains, by poking the weakest point. Now, I know where your weak points are."
Marisha: You don't know shit about me, bitch. I'm going to take another attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's a three. That's a nine.
Matt: Nope. With each miss, or, the first miss, she's going to use a reaction to attack you. That's going to be-- She can do that. Ducks out of the way, and immediately uses a reaction to smack you in the head for one point of damage, another bludgeoning point. She's going to spend another ki point to do another reaction. She can also do that.
Marisha: Roll. I rolled a 15 to attack. Second attack. These are two attacks, right?
Matt: For your second one, yeah.
Marisha: 15, so, 21.
Matt: Yeah, the second one does hit. She does not get the second attack. Roll damage on that second strike.
Marisha: Okay. Attacking her with the first one, and then I'm just going to duck down a little and jab her right in the ribs.
Matt: All right. What was the damage on that?
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight damage, nice. You crack her in the ribs, and the impact actually does catch her off guard. She ends up tumbling five feet backward across the ground, catching herself in a three-point landing.
Marisha: I back up. I'm going to spend another ki point to do my defensive stance. Patient defense.
Matt: Okay. Patient defense. You go into that stance that she was in earlier, but holding it for the entirety of this. Her eyes narrow for a second. You see her looking at all the different points that she struck on you earlier, like she's reading some sort of a docket on what your physicality is. With that, she doesn't run at you, she runs around you in a circle and begins to jump off the sides of the boxes, some of the crates that are stacked up nearby. You watch them wiggle as she puts her weight up against them, leaps off--
Marisha: Instead of getting distracted by her, I just listen to her and look at her out of my periphery.
Matt: Okay. Eventually, she uses her momentum to climb to the top with her feet and leap off, then come downward with the knee towards you.
Marisha: Right as she comes down and I'm going to use-- Oh, wait, dodge? Go first?
Matt: You're already in your defensive stance, so her attack's at disadvantage against you. The first strike. 19, 20 to hit?
Marisha: Miss. It says patient defense, spend one ki point to take the dodge action as a bonus action on my turn.
Matt: Correct, what the dodge action does is it means any attacks against you have disadvantage.
Marisha: Oh. Cool.
Matt: The first one did hit. Second one does not. The third one does. Two hits still get you. Both one point of bludgeoning damage. The knee comes down, and right as it cracks into your head, she shifts to the side and glides off, and as soon as her body glides off, her back is to yours, and her spinning elbow goes and cracks you in the side of the head, but it stops short, just barely hitting you. She's toying with you at this point.
Marisha: You said two more points?
Matt: Yes, two more points of bludgeoning damage. Make another constitution saving throw, please.
Marisha: 11. No, sorry, 12.
Matt: This time, opposed to the pressure points being hit, there is the one smack on the side of your head.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: This pain surges through the side of your temple, and travels through your spine, to all the points she had hit earlier, and your whole body tenses and seizes for a second. Your vision blurs, and your mouth stammers, and you're stunned for the next round. As she lands behind you, and walks around to the front of you, you're unable to, you can't move, you can't speak. "I can start you on this path. You can return to your wanderlust, your allies. Our kind learns more in the world than in a library. Agree to my instruction, to use the skills I teach you, as you return throughout your journeys. One day, you too, can become an expositor." You begin to regain control of your senses, and your speech begins to slowly return to you.
Marisha: Okay. I got to hand it to you, that was awesome, and I want to know how to do that. You beat me.
Matt: "Very well. Your first lesson begins now."
Marisha: Okay. (groan)
Matt: She snaps her fingers, and you watch as Zeenoth steps back in, sheepishly. "Is it over, my dear? Is it done?" "I need you to stand here for a second, Zeenoth. I need a body. Let me show you the proper pressure points." Zeenoth's eyes go wide for a second. "I don't believe--" "You owe me a favor. I found her for you, did I not?" Zeenoth sighs, sags his head, and takes his cloak off.
Marisha: I grab that stool, and I drag it over.
Matt: "Now, depending on what you wish to learn, there are different places where you can pull the information from the body." Over the next few hours, working with you, and over time--
Marisha: Does she beat the shit out of Zeenoth?
Matt: You both do.
Marisha: Sorry, Zeenoth. Sorry. God, we're such assholes.
Matt: "Assholes that the world needs, from time to time."
Marisha: Yeah. The world does need an asshole. We'll work on that one together. We'll work on that. That's good, that's good.
Matt: "I'll return to Zadash in the morning. Take what I have taught you. When you feel it's time for more tutelage, return to me. Do not worry. I have an eye on you."
Marisha: What do I do until then, do I just continue--
Matt: "Do what you must. Travel the world. Use what I've taught you. Learn about injustice. Those you don't trust, follow them. Bend them. Make them tell the truth and admit their guilt. Find where ever corruption is. Root it out and let the system do its job. If the system isn't doing its job, destroy the system."
Marisha: Why are you doing this? Why me?
Matt: "Because a long time ago, I was a wayward girl with no direction, was angry, and fighting at the world. And someone did this for me."
Marisha: I don't really believe in systems or being a part of them, let alone a system that takes down other systems. Seems almost hypocritical.
Matt: "Perhaps. Who knows. Maybe one day you'll find the corruption inside our own."
Marisha: Touche.
Matt: "Go. Get some rest. Clean up a bit, I think you could use it."
Marisha: You might have broke my wrist.
Matt: "It'll heal. Zeenoth." She slaps him awake. His unconscious body on the ground.
Marisha: Bye, Zeenoth! Zeenoth!
Matt: (coughing)
Marisha: Zeenoth!
Matt: "Oh dear."
Marisha: Bye.
Matt: "Goodbye. I have such great pleasure in saying goodbye, and good riddance."
Marisha: I leave.
Matt: You make your way back to the tavern, go back into the room, and, exhaustedly, pass out. Let's bring everyone else back in.
Marisha: Hi, friends. How's it going?
Travis: Are you alive?
Liam: I'm sure everything went according to plan.
Taliesin: Quiet dignity and grace.
Matt: As you all come to consciousness in the morning, little sore, but recovered--mostly--from the battle that wrecked you the evening before. The fresh smells of cooked meats, and the sounds of various patrons below in the inn tavern floor, rouse you to the morning. What do you wish to do?
Liam: Ah--
Marisha: Hi, guys. Sorry I snuck in last night.
Travis: How does she look?
Matt: She's beat to shit.
Travis: Oh, fuck! Did you get horse kicked?
Marisha: Several times.
Travis: Damn. How's the horse look?
Marisha: Horse is fucking dead. I ate it.
Travis: That's a bit excessive.
Marisha: Horse is fucking fine. Hey, Jester, do you have a bandage? Do you have a thing?
Laura: Oh, yes! Of course I do. I have a lot of bandages because I am the cleric.
Travis: I don't know if that bone's supposed to be sticking out of that part.
Laura: Yes, I'm going to open the medical kit and rummage around. Pull out some stuff. Give me your wrist! I can definitely heal this.
Travis: I bet Yasha can pop it back into place.
Marisha: Yeah, crack.
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Travis: You just made a bow.
Taliesin: It was string and mime.
Marisha: Oh, you made it worse!
Liam: (blood gushing)
Laura: 20.
Matt: Okay. It's actually fairly well made; it gives some nice support to it. I mean, it's more of a sprain than a break. But it helps offer some support to it. It'll heal.
Marisha: I've had some sprains that feel like breaks.
Matt: Yeah, no, it hurts like a bitch, or it did last night. Or it feels a little better today, but that's definitely going to help give it some support. Good job.
Marisha: Thank you.
Ashley: What happened to you?
Laura: I've been practicing.
Travis: Not you, her. What happened to her?
Laura: Oh. Sorry.
Marisha: Man, it was a great night. I had a great night! I haven't had a great night in a long time, you guys. That was a great night.
Travis: With the guy you--
Laura: You came in really late.
Taliesin: I'd like to see the other guy.
Marisha: I might have been accepted into, like, a secret society. It's kind of secret society business. It's hard to talk about.
Laura: Are you allowed to talk about it? Tell us about it!
Marisha: Okay! No, I can't. It's fine. There are these monks. I thought they hated me. It turns out they like me. Turns out they want me to become a part of their gang. But it's not really real, and they're like, "Just keep doing your thing! But you're against injustice and seek out truth and break systems!"
Laura: You are a hero!
Liam: Is this one of those dreams where nobody has their clothes on?
Taliesin: You know, if the monks beat you up to make them join your gang, they're not really your friends.
Marisha: You know, I said something like that to her. It wasn't as black and white as that.
Taliesin: Is that why they did that to your face there? Oh, no, they didn't. Apparently they were pretty--
Marisha: I wouldn't say this woman was my friend. I would say she's definitely a badass. I wouldn't say she's my friend.
Travis: This woman, was she with the fellow that you left with last night?
Marisha: She was. His name was Zeenoth. He's an archivist of the Cobalt Reserve. Lot of books there. Lot of books.
Travis: Cobalt Reserve. He was in the court.
Ashley: Was this a test of some sort?
Marisha: I think so.
Laura: Did you pass? I mean, they made you a hero, so obviously you did.
Marisha: I'm not a hero. That's not what they did. It's more like a vigilante! Like what we said! Yeah!
Laura: This is so great. Can they let us into the secret society too?
Marisha: No.
Liam: Well, you know, this is very fascinating, but I have some errands to run. Nott, would you like to run errands with me? We are totally coming back and not leaving on our own undercover.
Travis: Insight check.
Laura: Insight check.
Taliesin: Insight check.
Liam: Bring it on.
Marisha: Do you need an insight check to know that that was shady as fuck?
Taliesin: Fuck all.
Laura: 15.
Travis: 11.
Liam: Persuasion?
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: You don't have to tell me what you're rolling!
Liam: I rolled a natural 20! Whatever. I'm being very honest! We're not going anywhere. But I do have errands to run. So, we're going to leave soon. Have some breakfast. I grab some bacon from Ford/Fjord's plate, and grab Nott and head out the door.
Taliesin: Meet us at the circus.
Laura: I'm going to draw in my sketchbook a drawing of the devil toad head rolling along the ground like a bowling ball.
Sam: She really did.
Taliesin: She really did.
Laura: Well, kind of. I put the little bowling ball things on there. And he's going to run into all of us, in chains, being knocked down like pins.
Matt: Okay. Roll a dexterity check. Why not?
Laura: Eight-- No, 15.
Matt: It's very well done. There's, like, hatch mark shading.
Laura: Well, I did get really good training, so it's good that I know how to do shading.
Matt: All right, what are you guys doing? The rest of you, while they rush off to go about their errands.
Travis: Apparently eating less of my bacon, motherfucker.
Taliesin: I'm going to pack up and head back to the circus. Start getting things together.
Ashley: Yeah. I think I'll join you.
Matt: Molly and Yasha are heading back to the carnival grounds.
Laura: I want to go try to buy a map.
Marisha: That's a good idea.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Oh, I did actually want to see that map.
Taliesin: I'll meet you there. Actually, you know what? I want to see you see that map.
Ashley: I think that's a great idea. Seeing me see a map is something pretty special.
Taliesin: It's gorgeous. It's fabulous.
Matt: You guys, where are you heading off to?
Liam: I have two places to go. The first, we're going to the Burnished Bibelots. The second is a surprise. But I know that I whisked you away in a hurry the other day and you weren't done browsing.
Sam: That sounds lovely and I would like to browse there again, but, honestly, Caleb, I am very worried about you. You have passed out twice in the last few days, and unless we get you a healing potion, there is no promise that you will still be alive tomorrow. I think we should go to Natural Remedies. You distract the owner while I go in the back and I steal a healing potion. It's the only way to guarantee your safety.
Liam: Maybe that's the third place that we go. I will point out your point, which was that these crazy bastards are very distracting and strange, yeah?
Sam: Yes!
Liam: So they could be my healing potion, you know? We'll talk about it. Third place. So, drag her off to the Burnished Bibelots. Boom, in the door.
Matt: You head inside. It looks as chaotic as you left it. You see what looks to be a small bowl of heated porridge that's gathered on the counter, and cross-legged on top is the fantastic gnomish purveyor of the interior, Oglen. "Hello?"
Liam: Good day to you, sir!
Matt: "Good day to you as well."
Liam: I give Nott a little shove over towards the shelves and walk up to him, right up to the counter. What are you eating there? That looks good.
Matt: "Breakfast."
Liam: All right, yeah. That's what that is. You know, I wanted to thank you for the book. I don't know if you read it yourself, but I read it cover to cover quickly. It was fascinating and very useful. [aside, quietly] I hope you're doing stuff over there.
Matt: "All sales are final!"
Liam: Well, here's the thing. I have read this book and loved it, and if you would like to purchase it for the low, low price of one gold, you can sell it again. You sold it to me for three. You have it back for one. You can turn a profit.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: You watch as some of the porridge is spilling out the side of his mouth, and he rubs it off. "All right." And he pulls a gold coin out of his pouch.
Liam: That is a good decision, and it was a good book. I am grateful for the knowledge you have imparted upon me.
Matt: "Might I have the book?"
Liam: Oh, of course! It's right here on the table. Sorry, grandfather.
Matt: "All sales are final."
Liam: Right. You will not sell that back to me, for sure.
Matt: "Do you want it? I can sell it to you for three gold."
Liam: That's a good price. Nott, how are you doing?
Sam: (chewing) Bacon's really good!
Liam: All done for the day?
Sam: I'm looking around for something to swipe.
Matt: Make an investigation check. You guys keep just shaking down this poor gnome guy.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: Looking around, I mean, a lot of this is knick-knacks and inane garbage, and things that just aren't quite worth what you'd be looking for. You do find one art piece that looks like it's a pretty good art piece with a decent frame, might be worth a little bit, but that's the best you can find. Everything else here looks like it's the dingy side of the Salvation Army.
Sam: Anything small? Ooh! Can I find my old flask that I left here?
Matt: Yes, I'll let you do that. It has not moved from where you placed it.
Sam: I'm going to steal back my old flask.
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check, please.
Liam: What is that little dancer toy? Between the three red mushrooms on the shelf behind you, is that a music box there?
Matt: "It is a music box." He takes it and cranks it.
Sam: 24.
Matt: "It was a music box."
Liam: It's lost the magic.
Matt: "I can fix it."
Liam: How long would that take?
Matt: He breaks it open, looks inside. "Three days."
Liam: Okay. Well, I'll come back and see your work in three days. Work on that and your breakfast. Hey Nott, are you ready?
Sam: Mm-hmm!
Liam: All right. Good day to you. Happy sales.
Matt: "Happy sales, as well."
Liam: Sure. Out the door.
Sam: I rolled a 24.
Matt: Yeah, he did not notice at all.
Liam: I'm going to head in the direction, dragging my goblin friend with me, to that fancy bathhouse that was described to me last night at the Nestled Nook.
Matt: You guys make your way southward. Go ahead and make a general charisma check.
Liam: Charisma check? Well, something I wanted to do before we got there, was going to do it maybe in an alley, but you tell me, is I would like to cast Disguise Self on myself. Presumably gone into an alleyway so no one sees me doing this in the middle of the road. I take the form of a man in very fancy green robes, beautiful blond hair, very handsome man, with a vomit stain down the front of my clothes.
Matt: Okay. Specific and easily done.
Liam: I drag my little friend along with me. You are going to like this, this is something very special.
Sam: I'm excited.
Liam: Oh, charisma check. Straight charisma?
Matt: Straight charisma. Add your modifier.
Liam: Yeah, it's 11.
Matt: 11, okay. With your Disguise Self form, it's easy enough for you to ask a few questions, and eventually you are given directions to what is called the Warm Dew Bathhouse. Warm Dew.
Laura: Warm Doo, D-O-O.
Matt: D-E-W.
Liam: Dew, dew. There's a liquid u in that.
Travis: Warm doo. Thank you.
Matt: It'll be one before you bathe there and the other when you leave. (laughter)
Liam: All right, let's enter this establishment.
Matt: For as far south as this is, it's pretty decent compared to the other areas. Most of the Hillsward-- you get the sense that a lot of the rural farming community that fills out most of Trostenwald, a lot of the money that gets made goes directly to the central portion of this ward, where this bathhouse is. It's small, but it's really well put together. As you walk inside, you can see there are marble busts set on the sides of the entrance way, each side. You can see nice tapestries that are pulled back over the windows, and as both of you walk in, you see this young man, maybe his mid-twenties or so. Human, but he looks very thin and sickly, like he had a rough upbringing, and his general constitution has suffered for it. He has a warm smile, and he's wearing these long white robes with what looks to be a yellowish scarf that's wrapped around as he approaches. "Hello and good morning. Can I help you?"
Liam: Yes, one moment. (quietly) Stay close to me and let me do the talking. (louder) Hello, please, don't focus-- my daughter is shy.
Matt: "I'm very sorry."
Liam: I've had a terrible day. Some disgusting derelict has vomited all over me, I smell like filth, and I would like to spend a couple of hours in your finest bath. Maybe not your finest. A good bath, for a couple of hours. My daughter and I. I will need adjoining baths, if you have that. For modesty's sake, my daughter and I.
Matt: "That can be done. Of course." Make a persuasion check.
Liam: (humming) There's a 12.
Matt: "For two hours, that will run-- for two baths adjoining, we'll put it at eight silver pieces."
Liam: That's fine. I definitely have that. I take out the eight silver, I slap it down.
Matt: "Wonderful. We'll show you to your bathroom."
Liam: Okay. Come along, dear.
Sam: Yes, Vater.
Matt: You guys are escorted to what-- It's really off-putting for the two of you. Not only is the smell clean inside here, but there's the scent of lavender in the hallway, and you hear soft music in the distance. As you walk past, you do see that there is a resident violinist that plays, and you guys are led to these two--
Sam: This is really nice!
Liam: Yes, it is.
Sam: They got a violinist over there! I'm sorry, zey got a violinist over zere, Vater.
Liam: That's meine Liebchen. I'm hoping for a hot bath for the both of us. It has been a long bit of travel.
Matt: "Right this way." Leads you into the chambers. There is a glass, fogged window, so the sunlight comes through, but no one can see through. There are some linens set out, a towel, and two basins that are freshly filled with steaming water. You are left into the chamber.
Liam: Are they separate, though?
Matt: They're separated by a small wall that's eye length, but you can still talk to each other over it.
Liam: Excellent. This is called a bath.
Sam: I've heard of them.
Liam: A hot bath. We have been pretty dinged up for the past several months, and we might not get back into something like this for a while, so I want you to enjoy it. Go over to your side, and I will be here. Nott, I'm going to do a bit of reading.
Sam: While you bathe?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: You'll still be the same Caleb when you're done, right?
Liam: Yes, I will be the same Caleb.
Sam: I've just gotten used to you, and now you're going to change a bit.
Liam: Trust me, I will not.
Sam: All right.
Liam: Once she is clear of the wall, I'm going to start actually disrobing, although I guess the illusion stays.
Matt: The illusion stays. Strangely, clothes start apparating out of you. (slurping)
Marisha: It's like a bad video game glitch. Bad texture glitch.
Liam: Nott, I'm probably going to go quiet for a little while.
Sam: No problem. I'll just be over here, you know, bathing.
Liam: Enjoy it. I find the second book and examine it. Am I able to read this?
Matt: You are, actually. There is one incomplete arcane inscription in there. Unfortunately, it's been too burned, beyond recognition. You can see this was a spellbook. Mostly destroyed, but there are two complete spells in there that, if you wish to, you could transcribe over into your book. Those would be Arcane Lock and Unseen Servant.
All: Ooh!
Liam: So. All my actual clothes are off. I'm going to take the book and set it on the edge of the basin.
Matt: Because you paid for it, there is a hinged, small desk piece where food can be eaten, or drinks could be served while people are taking a bath.
Liam: I set it down. I sit with just my legs in the bath for a moment, and I look at the book. [exhales]
Sam: I'm going to find the pitcher of cucumber water, dump it on the floor, and eat all the cucumbers. (laughter)
Matt: As you hear over the wall (gobbling).
Sam: Look around for anything in the room that can be stolen?
Matt: Plenty of things, actually. No one's watching. There's a vase that's really nice. The doorknob itself is a brass, gold-like material.
Sam: I'll start working on that.
Matt: Using your thieves' tools, you can get that free, if you want.
Sam: After a while, I put a toe into the water, feel it, and I'm like: Nah. I'll use my empty flask and fill it up with water.
Matt: Okay. You get a water flask.
Sam: Then work on the doorknob.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a thieves' tools check, adding your dexterity.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Add the dexterity and your proficiency.
Sam: Oh. 14.
Matt: There you go. With very little sound, the doorknob comes off, and you have now a solid brass doorknob. There is the vase.
Sam: Is it a big vase?
Matt: It's like that big. It's more of a decorative flower holder over by the window.
Sam: Sure. I'll try to get that too.
Matt: Easy. You get it. There's nobody watching you!
Sam: I'll also save the flowers in a separate pouch.
Matt: Okay. There you go.
Sam: Any towels. Ooh, you know what?
Matt: Yeah, the linens can be taken.
Sam: I'm going to take one towel and tear it into shreds, and use it to replace any of my bandages that have worn or fallen off.
Matt: Easy enough. There's some nice clean bandages. Good.
Sam: I'm good.
Liam: On my side, while all of that is happening, two things. One is that when I finally get into the tub I dip my whole body almost entirely in, but not my head or hair. Letting the bruises soak in the hot water, which feels wonderful. The second thing is, while flipping the pages of this book, very still, I can hear all of this, and it is extremely endearing, but I go completely still. Completely quiet. And read in peace.
Matt: While you guys are taking a bath, the rest of you are going off on a shopping trip. Except for you, you're going to--
Taliesin: No, I'm going map hunting.
Matt: That's right. You're going. Who's all going together?
Laura: All of us.
Matt: Where are you going?
Laura: Okay, I'm going to ask Yorda if there's a map maker in town.
Taliesin: Or if she can draw us a map of how to get there.
Matt: "There's not much of a specific cartographer in place. Most of the cartography guilds are up north in either Zadash or Rexxentrum. There might be one in Alfield? We're a bit small over here. You could ask the general store, or you could maybe go to the stockade. They have maps there but they use those. You might be able to pay enough for them."
Laura: I don't want to go back to the stockade.
Matt: "Then maybe check the general store or any of the strange book places might have something old and lying in the back."
Laura: Ooh, what strange book places?
Matt: "Well, let's see. There's the Hillsbrook Parchment and Binding. There's the Burnished Bibelots, that I think one of your friends has already been to. Those are the two strange book places. I'm not much of a reader myself, so I couldn't tell you."
Laura: Can you draw me a map of how to get to those places?
Marisha: We've already been to the general store.
Laura: Yes, you're right. I guess we can try that place.
Marisha: You can still make her draw a map. I don't want to rain on your parade. I'm sorry.
Travis: You just shit all over her.
Marisha: I totally did.
Matt: She gives you directions.
Laura: Let's go on a trip!
Matt: Where are you guys going first?
Marisha: (singing) General store!
Laura: We've been there before.
Marisha: (singing) I want to buy another health pack!
Sam: Health pack?
Marisha: I meant a healer's kit.
Laura: The general store doesn't like us very much. Oh wait. That healer's kit, is that the one you bought when we were together?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: You spent way too much money on it because I changed the tag?
Marisha: Yeah. That one.
Laura: That was great. Now I have it. Cool.
Marisha: You won twice.
Matt: Everything's coming up Jester.
Laura: All right, let's go back there. They don't like me, but let's go back there.
Marisha: I can just pop in if you want to wait outside.
Laura: They don't like you either. MARISHA, Yeah, but they like money. Let's go.
Matt: All right, so you guys make your way to Lochward General in the Lochward District. As you enter, the older woman, Harper Mince, is there in the general store. It's the large, almost wooden barn exterior. The front door opens two ways, and the inside is wall-to-wall lined with tools for farming and farming equipment for building. There's lumber. There's all sorts of iron nails. It's by all accounts a rural general store. You see on far end is Harper, the older woman there, standing and looking out at the rest of you. "Hi, can I help you? What are you looking for?"
Laura: We are looking for pickles, did you get any yet?
Matt: "No, we don't sell pickles here, sorry."
Laura: Most general stores have pickles, this is the only thing.
Marisha: You're not wrong, generally, yeah.
Matt: "We can order some pickles, if you like."
Laura: Yeah, you probably should. I think you would do well if you sold pickles. Do you have maps for sale of the area?
Matt: "The area? Let me check. I'll be right back."
Laura: Does she leave the room?
Matt: Yeah, she does. She leaves the room.
Travis: Don't-- put your hands in your pockets.
Laura: Don't put my hands in my pockets, got it! I start running around and just moving everything on the shelves again the same way as before.
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: You're just moving things?
Laura: Yeah, just like moving--
Travis: Please be Laura when she was five and break shit.
Laura: Oh yes! 18 plus five.
Taliesin: This is beautiful.
Matt: With nary a squeak you completely rearrange in a period of about two and a half minutes most of the price cards that are dangling from a number of the tools, their placement. You guys all sit back and watch as this glorious display-- you can almost hear the William Tell Overture begin to play in the back of your head as she rummages back and forth throughout the interior of the chamber, turning things around and sticking them in the ground. It has been completely rearranged.
Liam: [old man voice] Why is this crowbar seven gold?
Matt: Eventually you hear some rummaging from the back room and some footsteps coming nearby and you quickly stop and return to your original point there and Harper Mince returns from the back room. She has a few papers in her arms. She goes, "I'm sorry, we don't have any maps of the local area for detail. I have a map of the Dwendalian Empire as a whole, I hope that's enough."
Laura: I mean, that could work, I suppose. It's not what we need, but if that's what you have that's what we can buy from you.
Matt: "All right, let me look at the date here. This will run about seven silver."
Laura: Okay, that sounds like a good price, yeah.
Marisha: Can I also get another healer's kit? If you have one.
Matt: "Right, yes, let me go ahead and get that for you here." The healer's kit. Looking up the pricing in the equipment section.That is five gold pieces for the healer's kit. (groaning)
Marisha: Five gold.
Matt: All right, mark it off. You get yourself a secondary healer's kit.
Marisha: Well, one healer's kit. She's got the other one.
Matt: You hand over the seven silver?
Laura: Yes, I do.
Matt: She takes it and put the ribbon back on it. Finally get to give that to you guys.
Liam: Shut the front door!
Laura: And I have a pretty ribbon out of it.
Taliesin: We're going to Goonies this really quickly here. Ready?
Laura: What the fuck?!
Sam: That's beautiful! Who made this? Did you make this?
Matt: I designed the layout, but the map is made by a wonderful woman named Deven Rue, who does incredible handcrafted maps.
Sam: You got to get a camera on this shit.
Travis: Hold it up!
Marisha: Put it in the middle.
Taliesin: Take a look, it's amazing!
Travis: Oh my god!
Marisha: Wait, where are we?
Matt: You guys are in Trostenwald, right there. This is north, this is south.
Sam: Angle it to that camera.
Laura: What camera?
All: Wow.
Matt: This is the Dwendalian Empire. This is not all of Wildemount, this is just a portion. Deven did an incredible job with this. You should follow her on Patreon or Twitter, she does amazing work. She does incredible work.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, let's go all of these places.
Ashley: Maybe not all of them.
Laura: Okay, we are definitely going to visit this place called Hupperdook.
Sam: I think I had one of those this morning. [laughter]
Laura: Then we'll make our way up to Nogvuror. Oh man, this is awesome. Hey look, look over here! This is where I live!
Sam: There be dragons there.
Taliesin: You live in a serpent?
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Matt: By the way, Deven, who did the map, it is her birthday today.
Marisha: Happy birthday, Deven!
Laura: Damn, this is amazing! Okay, I'll leave it up here.
Taliesin: If you pull out a real medi-kit now I'm going to be really excited. 50 bandages come flying in...
Ashley: That is so beautiful.
Matt: She did an incredible job. The exchange is done, you have your map. Anything else you guys want to handle?
Taliesin: Medi-kit?
Marisha: I got it.
Laura: Can I just look around and see if there's anything interesting to buy in here, like--
Matt: There's plenty of tools. There are various packs of supplies.
Laura: I guess if I bought the painter's kit then it just stays and I don't run out of that.
Matt: Over time you would run out of it.
Laura: But I'm good on paint?
Matt: Good for a while.
Travis: Can I actually approach the storekeep and say: do you know of any stores that have arcane items, things with magical properties, healing potions?
Matt: "I'm sorry, we're a bit out of the center of the country for arcane items. You'd want to go further north for that."
Travis: Further north? I appreciate your time, thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Marisha: This town blows.
Travis: She's right fucking there.
Marisha: I don't care. [laughter]
Travis: Shall we depart?
Laura: Sure. Thank you so much for this beautiful map. You did a really good job drawing it.
Matt: Take your map.
Ashley: I also really like what you've done with the place.
Matt: "Thank you very much--"
Marisha: Let's go, bye! Thank you!
Matt: "I-- um..."
Travis: Gotta go!
Marisha: [bell dangling noises]
Matt: As you guys all exit, she begins to come around the counter.
Taliesin: I like the idea of you just standing there going, [bell dangling noises]
Laura: Wherever we go, I'm going to bury my head in the map and walk behind everybody like a total tourist.
Taliesin: Well, that's the question  are we going to be able to grab a cart or two from the circus?
Matt: You can probably get a cart.
Taliesin: Like one of the little vardos? Can we snag a vardo?
Matt: Technically it's a vardo and the three of them took it. There's a vardo and then there's some carts. You weren't rolling with a pretty heavy-- honestly, most of the room in the carts was either for carrying you guys, whatever small bags you had with you, and the poles you would assemble to make the tent. Are you guys done with your business? Anything else you want to do while you're out and about?
Travis: That's it for me.
Laura: There's nowhere we can buy healing potions in this city?
Matt: There's Natural Remedies, which you've passed before, but not entered. It's an herbal healers establishment.
Laura: Let's try that.
Taliesin: I'm very wary of this, but fine.
Travis: It's going to smell like "Sephoria," I know it.
Laura: Sephora.
Travis: That's the fancy version.
Matt: Now, you guys had left earlier, so as you guys head toward Natural Remedies, you guys finish your bath.
Liam: I pack up. I said we're staying for an hour, so I cast Disguise Self again to keep the illusion going. I'm done, you look--
Sam: I splashed some water on my face.
Liam: --refreshed.
Sam: Oh, it was such a good bath. I'm ready to go now, I feel refreshed.
Liam: Did you like it, though?
Sam: It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Liam: I wanted to repay you for all you've done for me for the past couple of days.
Sam: Consider it paid! You look the same. Does he look the same?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: The brief moment that I was in my own guise nothing changed up here, so I look exactly the way I did this morning.
Laura: What's the purpose of that?
Liam: Who said that? You wanted to do something, right?
Sam: I wanted to go to Herbal Remedies and see if we could get you a healing potion.
Liam: Let's do that, then. You lead the way. Well wait, you lead the way outside. Let's keep our little schtick going here and then off we go.
Matt: All right. As you guys exit--
Sam: Auf Wiedersehen!
Matt: "I trust you enjoyed your time at the bath, thank you."
Liam: Yes, but we have to go. Sorry, I'm late for a very important appointment. I drag Nott right out of here because I saw no doorknob on the door.
Matt: Yeah, amongst other things. You guys make your way out and beeline it towards the Lochward to where you would find Natural Remedies. The rest of you guys, as you approach the exterior, amongst the rest of the buildings in the central city, Natural Remedies is, for lack of a better term, humble. It's a small shack, but as soon as you approach it has very strong, pungent smells of funguses.
Travis: Instant headache.
Matt: Yep. On the outside you can see, right where the doorway is open, there are strings of herbs that are tied up and left to dry out. On the inside, you can already see that there are shelves of various flora and fauna that are being cultivated for various remedies and means of selling to anybody who wants to come by and procure herbal medicines. Let's see who's handling this one, because you guys have not been here yet. As you enter the main chamber--
Liam: Sorry, I will say that on the way there that I dropped the disguise, somewhere.
Matt: Okay, easily enough, so you guys haven't arrived yet. You guys have arrived. As you enter the interior, it's a very musty smell on the inside, too. There's a lot of fungus being grown on the inside here, and you can see that elements of it may have expanded into the corners of the actual room and it's not necessarily the nicest space to be wandering in. It seems natural. Across the way, you see a gentleman of relatively tanned skin, with darker hair that's ratty and clustered. He's in his late twenties or so, looks to be upon closer inspection partial elven blood, partial human blood, and he's in the process of carefully carving a large stalk of what looks like a fungus off of a small pot that he pulled off one of the shelves. As you enter, he doesn't even make eye contact. He goes, "Hello, please, just wait a moment. There we are. Hi, can I help you?"
Laura: Yeah, my friends keep dying. Do you have any health potions?
Matt: "We have a handful, that is correct. How many are you looking to purchase?"
Laura: How many do you have?
Matt: "Four."
Laura: Ooh. That will last us probably, like, a day.
Matt: "What do you do for a living?"
Laura: We're superheroes.
Taliesin: Sword jugglers.
Matt: "Why would-- Fine, who am I to ask?"
Marisha: Look at this bruise.
Matt: "I cut fungus for a living."
Marisha: Look, it's in the shape of a dick.
Matt: "I'm not going to ask. Four? Did you want them?"
Laura: Sure, yes. How much for four healing potions?
Matt: "For four healing potions," and he pulls them out and plops them on the table, "240 gold pieces."
Taliesin: Level two.
Laura: Okay, hold on. I open up my pack and I pour out all my money. I start counting it.
Ashley: Do you have a deal, you know, if we got all of them? That seems pretty high. Right? That seems pretty high for a healing potion.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage. Yasha: the wheeler and dealer.
Ashley: Three.
Matt: "No, actually, I think it's rather standard in these parts. But I can put them back."
Taliesin: Healing potions aside, you are doing something really interesting and exciting here. You're not a healing potion dealer. What are you doing here? Like this is fascinating.
Matt: "Oh, I create all sorts of means of tending to wounds and loss of stamina. To be honest, a lot of people come around here for performance-enhancing fungus."
Taliesin: I don't know, I feel like you can excite me. I feel like there's something that you have to show that's really exciting. I'm not entirely sure it's all about stamina, I think you've got something-- you did that on purpose. Talk to me like I'm a child, show me something I've never seen before.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Not with advantage, because I don't have it, but I was so excited.
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Persuasion check. 19. I'm fishing for drugs, I'm not going to lie. I've been on the road a long time, I don't remember how to do this.
Matt: He leans in close to you. "Mind closing the door?"
Taliesin: I skip over to the door and gingerly close it.
Matt: "Keep curious company, that's true."
Taliesin: Yes, I do. And we're leaving town today.
Matt: "Those are magical words for a man of my business. Are you a fan of skein?"
Taliesin: I don't actually know what that is.
Matt: "Well," and he goes back into the back chamber, comes back with a small satchel. There's a finely dried, dusted material on the inside, it has a grayish-blue color to it. He goes, "This is a dried and ground fungus called skein. It's called skein because when you eat it you can see the weave of time."
Marisha: Is that what skein means?
Matt: "It's a woven skein, it's a joke on fate-- never mind."
Taliesin: I thought it was very clever.
Matt: "Thank you very much. It's effective, it's popular on the outskirts where it's not so heavily controlled and carries a huge jail-time if caught. How much are you looking to purchase?"
Taliesin: I've got to be honest, I'm not made of money, but I'm always curious for a new experience.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on this guy?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Marisha: See if he's trying to scam us.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Can I use my criminal background?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: All right, Marisha said that, not Beauregard.
Marisha: To know if he's actually giving what he's giving?
Matt: You know what? Make your insight check.
Marisha: Just straight insight.
Matt: Straight insight.
Marisha: It's not as good as I would've hoped. 18.
Matt: Not as good as I hoped  18.
Liam: That's a slam dunk at level two.
Matt: Seems on the level, seems excited that somebody's asking about it. You get the sense that maybe he makes a lot of this either for himself or in hopes that somebody asks about it and is seemingly excited that somebody in this bumfuck town, in his opinion, would even have interest. You have once encountered this substance before, and it does seem legit.
Marisha: Okay.
Ashley: How do we know if it's good quality, though? Can I give it a sample?
Taliesin: Well, this might be complicated, I think that just-- What would--
Travis: How about a few experiences?
Taliesin: A few experiences' worth. What would that run me?
Matt: Hey guys, we're dealing D&D drugs.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry for dragging the entire audience into this. Hopefully your children are already asleep, I do apologize.
Sam: D&D Beyond, everybody. Our sponsor for the evening.
Taliesin: Thank you for really bringing that to earth for me. You started this.
Matt: "I'll put you in at a gold an experience, how about that?"
Taliesin: All right. Yeah, put me in for one. I'll try anything once.
Matt: He takes a small little batch of this dried, powdered fungus, and puts it into a small glass vial, corks it, and hands it over.
Ashley: Well, you might as well make another one. I'm not going to let my friend experience it alone.
Taliesin: What's it called? Skein?
Matt: Skein. S-K-E-I-N. I believe that's how it's spelled.
Laura: Yasha, you should take it with them. Right now. It'll be fun.
Taliesin: No, this is not how this works. This is not how this works. We bank our moments for those moments when life is disappointing.
Travis: I know a unique substance when I see it, I'll take one as well.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Marisha: One for me too.
Taliesin: This can come in handy in all sorts of ways.
Matt: God damn it, guys.
Taliesin: The fact that you had this ready means that there is no shame here. You were ready for this.
Matt: You're right, I am not making any of this up on the spot at all.
Taliesin: I know, I can tell!
Liam: This guy went from the Simpson's Safeway clerk to the shadiest motherfucker in a snap of time, because of your question.
Taliesin: A big, purple, pierced demon walked into the room and was like, hello.
Liam: Yes, can I help you, good sir? Yes, I can help you.
Travis: I'll tell you what, because you are such a purveyor of such interesting items, I will take one of those health potions, but for 50 gold. That's the running price I've seen in neighboring towns, and I don't mean to be swindled.
Marisha: I assume you'd want to go ahead and give it to us for that so that we keep this a secret.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, with advantage.
Travis: 21.
Matt: "50 gold," and he pulls his hair back a bit, "Seems fair." Takes a potion and hands it over. He scoops a little vial and says, "And for fun." He throws it over.
Liam: You fucking badass.
Sam: Cut to an hour later, and someone's jamming an adrenaline needle.
Matt: TPK by misuse?
Taliesin: Somewhere around level eight, this is going to be hilarious. Somewhere around level eight somebody's going to go shopping and the rest of us are going to be like: this is now, this is happening now.
Matt: This has become the longest afterschool special I think we've ever experienced.
Taliesin: Years in the making.
Matt: He immediately gets nervous at her mention of--
Taliesin: She's fine, she's just awful, you're a gentleman, I hope to see you again. I'm looking forward to this.
Matt: "I'll be here."
Taliesin: Of course, we never met you, you never met us.
Matt: "Of course not. I don't know who you are."
Taliesin: I am already out the door, with a flourish.
Matt: At which point, you run outside just as Caleb and Nott are approaching.
Marisha: Before I go out I say, nice to meet you, mister--?
Matt: "Davies."
Travis: The decision was still happening by the time you got to the last letter.
Marisha: I go  Okay, Davies.
Laura: I guess I'll scoop my money back into my pouch and leave.
Marisha: Do you want anything?
Laura: No.
Matt: You bump into Caleb and Nott on the way out.
Liam: What's the matter, do you have a cold?
Laura: You don't smell bad, what did you do?
Matt: Actually, ironically, his clothes do still smell pretty bad, and he still looks awful.
Laura: You don't smell as bad.
Matt: That's true, on a gradient scale, he does smell a little better.
Liam: I will take that as a compliment, thank you. What are you guys doing here, are you shopping? What do they have in there?
Laura: They bought drugs.
Travis: That is an over-exaggeration.
Taliesin: That is an extreme over-exaggeration. We got a health potion.
Sam: All of you?
Marisha: Well, it was kind of a ploy to get a cheaper health potion.
Taliesin: It worked.
Marisha: And we got drugs on top of it. It was a win-win, am I right?
Laura: If you guys go in there and you buy a health potion, don't spend as much as he says, because apparently he was lying.
Liam: How much do they run for?
Travis: Health potions were quoted at 70, but he was kind enough to understand that 50 was enough.
Liam: 70?
Travis: Gold pieces.
Sam: North we go.
Taliesin: North, to the horses.
Liam: We have a plan for the day?
Laura: Yes, and I show them the map that we just got. We're heading that way. Can I take the ribbon that was wrapped around the map and tie it around one of my horns?
Matt: Easily enough.
Marisha: That's cute.
Laura: Thank you.
Sam: We could rob the store.
Liam: Do you have a strategy for that?
Sam: I mean, we could use one of our pre-planned strategies.
Liam: Which one would that be? Because I was thinking about it on the walk here and I can't think which one applies.
Taliesin: I was going to say, robbing shady people is usually a bad idea.
Marisha: Do we hear them doing these plans? Do we hear you guys making this plan?
Liam: No, I wouldn't be saying this out loud if you're close.
Sam: We could just do the simplest  the Prince and the Pauper.
Liam: Here's the thing, I have died almost twice in two days. We have our friends and I think that's a good way to start.
Sam: All right.
Liam: I mean, you know, we almost all got pinched yesterday.
Sam: You're right, we should leave town with our wits about us and full of health. Let's just go while we're ahead. Besides, I got plenty of stuff today.
Liam: You and me?
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Liam: All right. Okay, where are we going first?
Laura: We're heading north to--
Liam: Is it this big?
Matt: That's the size of the map.
Laura: I mean, we can stop through Alfield first and see if there's anything cool there, or-- what city was it that the academy was in?
Marisha: "Solstryce?"
Matt: Soltryce.
Travis: Soltryce.
Marisha: Is that the name of the town?
Taliesin: No, I don't think it's the name of the town.
Laura: I mean, the ultimate goal, you guys, is to get to Hupperdook, but--
Taliesin: What about Yogurt?
Laura: That's an afterthought.
Taliesin: It usually is.
Liam: How far off does Hupperdook look?
Laura: Well, we have to pass through Felderwin and the Felderwin Village first.
Sam: Let's skip that one, please.
Laura: Oh, is that the one you don't like? Okay, then we'll go up through Alfield, and then Zadash, and then we'll cut across and go to Hupperdook.
Marisha: Is that where your clan is from?
Sam: They roam about.
Ashley: You don't want to go to Zadash, is that right?
Marisha: Nah, it's cool. We can go back.
Travis: It's cool now?
Marisha: Yeah, I mean, there's a few places that I didn't get to see in my sight-seeing roundabout, didn't get to hit everything. Now that I've slept on it, I've had a change of heart. It's a nice town.
Laura: How long of a travel would it be to get to Zadash from where we are now?
Matt: Following the road is longer, but it's safest. That'll probably be close to 200 miles to Zadash.
Sam: Jesus. We're on foot.
Taliesin: No, we've got a cart.
Sam: A cart.
Matt: You do have a cart. A single cart.
Laura: A horse? Let's go back to the inn and ask Yorda if she knows if Alfield is a big city.
Liam: Do I have any knowledge of Alfield?
Taliesin: I came though Alfield, didn't I?
Matt: No, you guys traveled around. You went from Felderwin, and curved around to the Ustaloch.
Taliesin: That's right.
Matt: Alfield is actually slightly smaller than Trostenwald, it's a stop on the way to Zadash. Zadash is the second-largest city in the kingdom.
Marisha: What do I know about Zadash that I could tell them? Can I tell them anything?
Matt: It was the last conquered bastion of the previous government before the empire entirely took the valley.
Marisha: That's right. Zadash is on the edge of the empire too, right?
Matt: It was, but now it's more central. It expanded past and took over Trostenwald, Alfield, it expanded all the way into the valley.
Liam: Will you share your map with me for just one minute?
Laura: Of course.
Sam: This is a good trick he does. He can look at it once and it will stay with him forever.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Yes, it's amazing, you can quiz him on it later. While he's memorizing it, Yasha, is that your name again?
Ashley: Yasha. SAM; It's like Ash, with an -ay.
Ashley: Not really, but close enough.
Sam: I got you these flowers.
Ashley: Oh.
Sam: Thought that they might gussy you up a bit. It's a lot of drab colors. Also, maybe you won't kill me now.
Ashley: I'm not going to kill you.
Sam: I know, I gave you the flowers.
Ashley: All right, well.
Sam: Girls like flowers.
Laura: I love flowers, did you get me any?
Sam: I didn't, because you're less of a threat.
Laura: You don't know that.
Ashley: That was very nice of you, thank you.
Sam: Sure!
Marisha: Didn't peg you for a flowers type of girl.
Sam: All girls like flowers.
Ashley: I take out a book that I have and in between some of the pages is a four-leaf clover. I'll take the flowers and I'll put them in between the other pages, and I'll put it away.
Sam: You see? (laughter)
Sam: It doesn't hurt to be nice sometimes.
Marisha: I mean, it can, though.
Sam: Well it hurts you.
Liam: It looks like somebody was very nice to you the night before, over and over again.
Marisha: Oh, she was.
Laura: You guys, we are going to Zadash. Is that what we're saying, we're going to go to Zadash?
Liam: Sure, let's do that. What's our goal in Zadash?
Laura: I don't know, I just need to know where we're going, okay?
Marisha: That's on the way to the "Solstryce" Academy?
Matt: The Soltryce. Solstice, I can see you mixing it up. The Soltryce is technically in Rexxentrum, which is the capital of the empire.
Laura: Which is a lot farther.
Matt: Which is a lot farther. Zadash does have the only other subsidiary of the academy there, but the main Soltryce academy is in Rexxentrum, the capital. But Zadash has some connection to it.
Travis: I'll take it.
Liam: Unless you're a foreigner, everyone knows about Rexxentrum.
Matt: Yes, it's huge. For player comparison, it's twice the size of Emon. It's a massive city.
Laura: Zadash?
Matt: No, not Zadash, Rexxentrum.
Liam: Zadash is medium, or smaller.
Laura: Okay. Yeah.
Liam: How far did that map say, when I looked at it? 200 miles you said to Zadash?
Matt: To Zadash, roughly 200 miles or so, if you're taking the road, quicker if you take a straight line, but you're not as safe.
Liam: Well, I think it's good.
Sam: Are we going to walk there? Should we get horses?
Taliesin: We have a horse.
Liam: How many horses?
Taliesin: We have a horse.
Marisha: A horse and a carriage. I'm assuming it can't fit all of us.
Travis: Yeah, like a wagon.
Taliesin: We have a wagon.
Matt: It'll be about the same pace as on foot. At a fast pace on foot, you guys can traverse about 30 miles a day. That also means you're moving at a fast pace, so you're not being completely aware of your surroundings, you have a penalty to passively seeing things around you. But you get there quicker.
Travis: I like it.
Taliesin: Why be fast? What are we in a rush for?
Laura: We can sightsee.
Taliesin: I find careful is always best.
Liam: A couple of weeks on the road to a city bigger than this one.
Marisha: Are we all going to get along for a couple of weeks?
Sam: We'll find out, I suppose.
Laura: I get along with everyone, Beau.
Marisha: That's true, that's true.
Taliesin: I don't get along with anybody.
Marisha: That's also true.
Liam: Two weeks is not a bad test run for companions. If we don't like it, we part ways in Zadash.
Travis: Yeah, free to go at any time. As long as it serves everyone, we'll stay this way.
Ashley: I think I need to stay here just a little bit longer. But I will meet you guys there at some point?
Sam: Why?! What're you doing?
Liam: You have something else to do?
Ashley: I just don't think I can leave here until I'm told I can.
Sam: By the authorities?
Ashley: No, I just--
Sam: You're so mysterious
Ashley: I have things that I need to do--
Sam: Name one.
Taliesin: You know where we're headed.
Matt: Blindspot.
Marisha: Poor Ashley, we make her come up with excuses every time.
Ashley: I have reasons, I can stay, I just need to converse with somebody to see where my next step leads.
Marisha: You know you're not beholden to Gustav anymore, right?
Ashley: No, yes, no. It's not him.
Marisha: Is it Bo? The other Bo? Is it Desmond?
Ashley: No.
Marisha: Is it Ornna?
Sam: Please, Beau, let the detectives figure this out. Is it Desmond?
Laura: Is it Ornna?
Sam: It's Ornna, isn't it? It's Ornna, I knew it.
Laura: Will you hold this?
Sam: Yes, of course. See? Another case cracked. It was Ornna.
Laura: Before we leave, is there anywhere in town that there would be a courier service where I could send a message?
Matt: There are messenger services, yeah.
Laura: Can I go find one?
Matt: Yeah, okay. For the purposes of brevity, we'll say that you find a courier service that runs fast horseback all along the roads from the Empire, and then with approval, outside of it, to the south and west.
Laura: I'm going to write a letter to my mother that says, "Dear Mom, all of the money's gone. I don't know what happened, but I am very broke and I need more. Please help me. I am going to Zadash. That's where you can send it. Just send it to the inn that is the biggest one and I'll find it there. Just address it to me. Your loving daughter, Jester. Please, thank you, I need help, thank you."
Matt: All right. For delivery to Nicodranas, the cost of the courier service will run you about five gold.
Laura: This is really fucking-- She better send money, because this is eating into it.
Matt: That's hundreds and hundreds of miles on horseback.
Laura: Okay, I'll give the five gold for that.
Taliesin: It is such a different world.
Matt: Yeah. Welcome to level... three, after tonight.
Sam: Oh! If we live.
Marisha: While we're stopping by the post office, can I talk to the courier person?
Matt: Sure. It's a young girl with short-ish brushed hair, she's boyish and freckled, and a bit dirty in the edges of her chin, she's in the process of loading up the packs on the horse, and she's wearing simple leather armor, and looks back at you. "Can I help you?"
Marisha: Yeah, I was just wondering if you had any incoming mail for the Baumbauchs? I said that I would pick it up on the way home, heading over there.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Wow.
Sam: Mail fraud on the way out of town.
Marisha: That's good! 20. No. Deception? 19 total.
Matt: "Let me check. Yeah, actually, we've got three small parcels on the way to the Baumbauchs there."
Marisha: Thank you so much. He's going to be so happy to not have to run this errand. Thank you, bye. Oh, sorry, here you go. I give her a gold.
Matt: "That's very kind, thank you."
Marisha: Have a good day.
Matt: Hops onto the horse and takes off southward.
Taliesin: Mail fraud.
Marisha: Let's go.
Taliesin: That is actually the worst crime we've committed today.
Marisha: You said how many? Three parcels?
Matt: Three parcels.
Ashley: When you get to Zadash, maybe send me a note, or maybe I'll be there. I just have to do a couple things.
Laura: We'll send you a note on the way to Zadash. Then maybe you can meet us there.
Ashley: Okay. That sounds like a plan.
Travis: Do we have our fucking wagon ready?
Taliesin: Wagon's ready. I've even attempted to hide some of the contraband and otherwise. I packed well.
Liam: While everyone is getting ready, I wait for a moment when Fjord is on his own and everyone is busy, walk over. This group seems rough around the edges, but you seem clever. Hopefully we can make this work.
Travis: I think we should be able to, yeah. I mean, a little guidance goes a long way. You seem to be good at looking out for Nott.
Liam: I mean, full disclosure, I'm a little rough around the edges, but you catch my drift.
Travis: I do. You can trust us. You're safe here. I'm concerned with what happens with Jester and Beau. I think, amongst all of us, we should be fine.
Liam: Let's make it work.
Travis: We'll make it work.
Sam: Fjord, something in me says that, for some reason, you should be the one who tells the horses and wagon to go. (laughter)
Sam: It just seems-- you're the biggest, maybe?
Travis: That is mighty considerate of you, Nott. Are you sure you don't want to take a crack at it?
Sam: I could take a crack at it. The wagons be hitched, hee-haw.
Travis: Use your diaphragm. Really get a yee-haw, get in there.
Sam: Saddle up your doggies, hee-haw.
Travis: One more time, on the count of three. One, two, three. On three, I push his chest in.
Sam: Yee-haw!
Matt: All right. With that, her vocal expulsion is majestic and sudden. Make an animal handling check with advantage, please.
Sam: With advantage? Six. I'm still a scary goblin.
Matt: The sound that comes out is less of a "Yee-haw," and more of a screech sound. The horse immediately rises up and goes into a very heavy gallop, and the cart takes off ahead of you, and you all struggle to catch up for a bit. With that, you guys quickly try and saunter up, heading northward along the road towards the direction of Alfield, and eventually Zadash, as you head further into the Dwendalian Empire, and whatever fate has in store for you the next leg of your journey. We'll stop tonight's session there.
Sam: Ashley Johnson, ladies and gentlemen.
Liam: Yee-haw.
All: Yee-haw.
Travis: Well, we committed felonies and mail fraud. That's good.
Taliesin: Quite a few. Got into a bar fight.
Laura: We skipped town without paying our inn fees.
Sam: We bought drugs.
Travis: We bought a little bit of mold.
Matt: You paid your inn fee.
Laura: We did pay on the way in. I did pay for a few days when we got in. I guess that is probably enough.
Liam: Oh my gosh, and Sneaky McSneakerson over here. Oh boy.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Who knows what Marisha did while we were out there?
Travis: Yeah, we got to go back and not watch that later.
Marisha: Like the three rules of Fight Club.
Matt: You guys are all level three when you come back next week. (cheering)
Travis: Oh god, we got to shop. We got to book shop.
Laura: Oh man, this is fun.
Matt: Yeah, thank you guys for sticking around for a less intense, more character-driven episode, these early days of figuring each other out and forming a fellowship. This is fun, I love it.
Liam: Bunch of assholes.
Matt: I know.
Taliesin: Bunch of assholes!
Liam: That's the name.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching. Thank you again, Deven, for being an incredible artist, and an incredible mapmaker for working with me on that. Her Twitter-- I should've had this prepared in advance! You can follow Deven on Twitter @devenrue, Mistress of Maps. Her work is incredible. She has a Patreon, which I'm a patron for, you should be too. It's her birthday, so say happy birthday to her.
All: Happy Birthday!
Matt: All right, guys, have a wonderful week. Ashley, come back.
Ashley: Hopefully soon, I never know. I'll try.
Laura: So glad you were here.
Matt: If anybody from Blindspot is watching right now, kill off her character. I mean, don't do that, but we want her back.
Ashley: I don't think any of them are watching.
Matt: It's fine. We just miss her a lot. We'll see you guys back next week. Much love to you, much love to you, and is it Thursday yet?

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: (laughter) God damn it! Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (howling)
Matt: We are unfortunately down one Laura Bailey tonight because she got the con plague from Chicago, and she needs a little baby to take care of, so she's going to be at home, watching and texting these guys if they do anything really wrong with Jester.
Ashley: Please, just come.
Liam: We almost had three women at this table.
Matt: Almost. But we have Ashley back. Back back for a while now. So happy you've returned.
Ashley: Me too.
Matt: Before we jump into the game, we have some announcements to get to tonight. First and foremost, we have our sponsor tonight, D&D Beyond. Sam, if you want to take it from here.
Sam: Okay. Let's see if we can do this. Good luck. You know, the best part about D&D Beyond is keeping track of your important stuff. And there's one important thing we keep losing: Ashley Johnson. Please put this on. So I'm proud to give you the first ever D&D Beyond Presents: The Mighty Nein Welcome Back Yasha Ceremony, featuring Ashley Johnson, everybody. Maestro, hit it. Oh, there's the award show music. I'm your host, D&D Beyond presents Sam Riegel, and we're going to go around the room super fast to honor Ashley's triumphant return. Didn't work. First up is Travis. None of them work. First up is Travis with a toast.
Travis: When I drink to you, Ashley, my heart is as full as my glass.
Sam: That's enough! There's no time! We got to keep going! I can't do it! Do it for me! Now we're going to go to Taliesin with a song.
Taliesin: (singing) Should auld acquaintance be forgot, and--
Sam: That's enough! Marisha has a poem prepared!
Marisha: Welcome back, Ashley, good friend of mine, goodbye Blindspot, hello Nein! (cheering)
Sam: And finally, Liam prepared an old Irish blessing!
Liam: (Irish accent) Oh may the road rise up to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. May the sun shine warm upon your face--
Sam: Okay, that's enough, we don't have time. Ashley, you are a good and creative person, and D&D Beyond wants you to honor the good-- D&D Beyond wants to honor the goodness and creativity of the fine folks at 826LA by kicking off the 826LA charity push. (cheering)
Sam: For every nat one rolled by us, D&D Beyond will be donating a hundred dollars-- Is that true?-- to 826LA! Also, D&D Beyond is retroactively donating for all the nat ones we've rolled so far in this campaign!
Liam: So many!
Sam: That's like 4200 bucks! But there's more. Once we hit the 10,000 dollar donation tier level-- I don't really understand this part-- Critters will unlock a special discount code for the legendary bundle on D&D Beyond! (cheering) (laughter)
Travis: It's totally not toxic.
Liam: It's in my drink!
Sam: Was this all planned for Ashley's return? No! This was planned far before! But hey, it sure feels like it. So from all of us at the table, and the guys at D&D Beyond: Welcome back, Ashley. (cheering)
Ashley: D&D Beyond!
Travis: 826LA!
Matt: Everyone at Wyrmwood watching just cringed as we showered the table.
Marisha: Here, Ashley, I'm going to tie it to your chair like we're at Applebee's.
Liam: Low, don't let them set the lights on fire.
Sam: Oh, I forgot to give you your award of excellence. It's from Jurassic World.
Ashley: Yes! Oh, guys, come on, this is the best!
Liam: My Wyrmwood has never looked so festive.
Taliesin: This is the most festive D&D game I've ever experienced.
Liam: I didn't shoot my silly string, because it's hair spray.
Taliesin: You were supposed to have a lighter too.
Sam: Wait, it's hairspray?
Travis: Yes it is.
Taliesin: I didn't even look at mine! That could have gone so poorly!
Sam: I think I bought the wrong thing at the store!
Matt: We almost had an actual Burning Hands example on script. Thank you, D&D Beyond, for helping with our wonderful push for 826. We'll have a video at the break today to show and explain some of the stuff involved with this whole charity push for 826, so look for that at the break.
Ashley: Oh man, I love you guys.
Marisha: So go pee, but watch it at the break, it's really important.
Matt: A couple of things some of you may have noticed, but if you haven't--we have a fantastic partnership with Obsidian for the upcoming Pillars of Eternity II: Deadfire, where number one the cast of Critical Role have been cast throughout the game as a number of the main characters in the story. I'm returning as mine and we have everyone else joining the awesome personalities all throughout Deadfire and on top of that you will have free DLC unlocked for custom voice sets and character portraits of Vox Machina, including Gilmore, available to use in the game. (cheering)
Travis: First time ever.
Sam: Who's voicing Gilmore?
Matt: I think Max is voicing-- No, I'm voicing Gilmore. We're super excited, they look amazing, and we're excited for you guys to check it out. You can go ahead and pre-order now at versusevil.com/criticalrole to pre-order the game if you want to check it out. I love the series and I'm super excited for the sequel, completely unbiased and then biased--hell yeah.
Liam: Recording Vox Machina and Gilmore lines was sur-real!
Matt: That was the most surreal thing.
Liam: It was so good!
Matt: So crazy.
Liam: Travis's might have been my favorite. It was fun.
Matt: All right, 826LA did you make it all through everything there?
Sam: I did! It was kind of chaotic, but they're donating for natural ones, they are retroactively donating for natural ones.
Matt: Did you get to the matching the dollar amount?
Sam: Oh no! Is that the 10k thing? I was confused.
Matt: We do have a video at the break, but we have a fantastic critter who is going to be matching every dollar donated to the charity as well up to 40K. Great stuff! Twitch Prime: if you have an Amazon Prime account, then you can combine it with your Twitch account. And thus, you can subscribe for free to a channel of your choice on Twitch once each month. So check it out. If you've ever wanted to go support your favorite streamers out there you can do it for free through Twitch Prime. We have new Twitch emotes available for being subscribers including some fun ones based on the new campaign! So we also have a Nein emote for our $10 subscription.
All: Nein!
Sam: Spend ten, get nine.
Ashley: I have a Pike one, because we haven't established what Yasha's thing is yet.
Taliesin: It's hard to show off eyeliner.
Liam: A sliced-up corpse victim, maybe?
Sam: She's the absence of emoji.
Ashley: We'll figure out who she is together.
Matt: Also if you need a refresher for campaign two, Critical Recap. The first 13 episodes of our new show are recapped now through Critical Recap on YouTube. Our fantastic Dani Carr is the host, check it out if you or anyone of your friends want to get caught up really quickly to watch live. Talks Machina from our recently paroled Brian W. Foster will be hosting this upcoming Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific on Twitch and Project Alpha about tonight's episode. Check it out, we'll have some guests from the show on there to talk about what transpires tonight. Of course, the podcast of last week's episode is also for download where all fine podcasts (laughs) are available. (laughter)
Travis: I'm not moving it.
Matt: We've made a huge mistake.
Travis: I'm not touching it. (laughter)
Matt: Available where all fine podcasts are downloadable to get caught up in the campaign audio-wise. Issue six! Our final issue of the six-run Vox Machina: Origins series is going to be available for download April 16th on Dark Horse's digital download platform for comics, ComiXology, and many other places. Check it out, and I hope you enjoy the finale of this six issue run. I think that's enough! We've talked about enough there. With that being said, folks, let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role! Goddamn it! [click, TV static] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Matt: And welcome back. Last we left off, the Mighty Nein had gotten caught up with some interesting folks, the Knights of Requital, who had hoped to help shift the political balance in the city, remove the framing and forging of equipment, of materials and letters, some of the corrupt individuals of the local government. They had gone out into the evening, infiltrated a few of the homes and left this information behind, gotten in a few scuffles, leaving one of them, the High-Richter, dead, and shortly after there was an attack on the Tri-Spire. What are you looking at, Sam? God damn it.
Liam: That's it! You're in the clear.
Matt: I'll remember this (laughs). Noticing there was seemingly an attack upon the Tri-Spire by two Xhorhasian assassin-type individuals, you met with one in the sewer trying to escape from being seen by the local guard during this confrontation and did battle with a Crick warrior of some kind. You subdued it, removed most of its equipment, and conflicted over this strange artifact, this beacon that it was carrying, sent it on its way; however, it was quickly caught by the guard and killed. You met, on the surface, the guard that were bringing the corpse and the object along, managed to spirit away the strange dodecahedron from the grasp of the town guard and absconded with it. You met with Dolan and Horris who're currently trying to figure out what to do in case they were somehow implicated with the events of the evening. You took Horris under your wing, promising Dolan that you would somehow smuggle him out of the city as it's currently on lockdown during this investigation. You all then managed to try and find some sort of lead on what the next step would be, went toward the Evening Nip apparently to seek possibly this individual known as The Gentlemen of which you have heard of previously as Kara, one of the members of the Knights of Requital, who had vanished seemingly had some sort of connection there. So you entered the Evening Nip, the rather dark and strange interior of the small dive bar, gave the previously discovered words, the code words that allowed you entry and were led down a long spiral staircase beneath the establishment into a subterranean bar. Upon which, after immediately stepping into the space, a black-furred female tabaxi approached Mollymauk over here and with a look of recognition said, "Lucien," and then embraced you. And that's where we left off.
Travis: (shouting) Fucking insight check on Taliesin! No, I'm kidding.
Matt: So as you guys all watch this dark-furred tabaxi giving this big, strong hug around Mollymauk's shoulders. Pulls away and looks at you and goes, "It has been too long, two ye--"
Taliesin: Far too long!
Matt: "Two years! (laughs) Look at you! You grew out your hair!"
Taliesin: Ah yes, it's been quite an interesting two years.
Matt: "And you are covered in tattoos!"
Taliesin: We'll catch up, we need a table, we need drinks for me and my compatriots.
Matt: "Of course, you-- these are your friends now?"
Taliesin: It's a long story and I can't tell you everything right now. You know how it is.
Matt: "Very well." As the tabaxi turns around, you can see there is posted right off to the right and around the corner a hulking figure that has leaned around the edge that leads into this L-shaped tavern. A hefty, muscular ogre that is wearing patchwork hide armor and holding a giant maul resting on the ground, looks back around the corner with these beady, dark eyes and large, looming jaw with angry broken teeth protruding from underneath going (snorts). Looks at the rest of you. Other folks around are looking a bit confused at your entry. Right immediately to your left is a table with a rough-and-tumble looking cutthroat sitting there eating a sandwich with a half-drunken drink, who's chewing slowly with this glare of mistrust in your direction. There are two balconies up above you in the chamber. You now get a better look up at the top, there are a number of individuals posted and some of them appear to be drinking, but there is at least one of them immediately in your view who has two skulking looking individuals with long dark cloaks and dark armor, carrying what looks almost like a heavy crossbow, but it's a long, metal rod. You've only seen them in use here and there, but these are some sort of a rifle-like firearm that are usually reserved for the armies and Bladegarden and to the far east of Xhorhas. A recently emerging technology that has been largely guarded within use of the empire itself.
Taliesin: Literally everything coming back to haunt me. Okay, cool.
Travis: If we had to ballpark it, how many persons would you say are in this?
Matt: 13 or so people in this tavern, including the bartender, the individual who rushed to you as you entered, and various patrons around that you can get a quick bead on.
Taliesin: The second she turns, I'm going to turn and give Fjord a little pat on the back and make a whisper really quickly.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Make a whisper?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm gonna whisper in Fjord's ear-- I'm sorry, this is my nightmare, please just go with it? It's Lucien. And I'm back around. Pass it on.
Matt: Okay, which as soon as you say that, you back away and look right behind Fjord as you all are standing there. There's Yasha.
Sam: Oh, what?
Taliesin: (nervous laugh)
Sam: Just at the bar?
Matt: No, right behind you as if she had just come down the stairs with you.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: Yasha!
Sam: (shrieks)
Ashley: Hey! So?
Taliesin: I'm apparently Lucien from two years ago. From two years ago. It's Lucien, remember? It's been ages!
Ashley: Okay, it's been a minute. Hey, you guys walked right past me in the bar upstairs so I decided to--
Liam: You are like a bad penny.
Sam: We did not walk right past you! We looked around! You're big, we would have seen you!
Ashley: I've been right behind you the whole time, I don't know how you didn't know I was here.
Taliesin: I'm so glad to see you.
Ashley: I'm glad to see you too, Mollymauk.
Taliesin: It's Lucien. It's Lucien.
Ashley: It's Lucien!
Liam: There's nothing private about our situation at all, right? There's people everywhere?
Matt: Well, there's people all throughout the tavern, but there's some music playing. There's two musicians that are in the process of plucking away at two instruments. Everyone seems further in the chamber, rather absorbed in their current rigmarole, but you guys have just stepped down the stairs. You haven't left the stairs. You are literally standing right at the entrance of this tavern and you've all been taken aback by that encounter, the realization that Yasha had followed you down the stairs, and whatever is about to transpire.
Taliesin: I'll explain later, just go with it please?
Marisha: Oh, Yasha followed us, she wasn't starting down here.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Gotcha.
Travis: I don't mind rolling with this name Lucien, but does it bring any extra trouble with it?
Taliesin: I don't know. We'll find out.
Travis: Fair enough.
Taliesin: Just go with it, I'll explain later.
Travis: All right.
Liam: And it all makes sense to you?
Taliesin: I'll explain later!
Marisha: This club is awesome!
Taliesin: I hate you.
Sam: Do I have to change my name in this club?
Marisha: Are we all supposed to change our names?
Sam: We should all come up with different names.
Taliesin: It might be easier just to have them all killed right now-- I didn't say that out loud. I didn't say that out loud. I'm just thinking out loud, oh, god. It's going to be fine, I'm not panicking.
Marisha: Let's go get drinks!
Taliesin: Let's go get drinks!
Matt: At this point, a hand claps and the tabaxi is now at one of the tables and has shooed off one of the drinks and goes, "This way, I found a table for everyone."
Taliesin: Come, sit down. I give the tabaxi another hug as we sit down. How have you been? It's been ages!
Matt: "Oh, too long. I apologize for using your old name. Nonagon, it is a pleasure to see you again."
Travis: Not a chance. I didn't catch that at all.
Matt: Nonagon was what you heard.
Marisha: Nonagon.
Sam: That's the tabaxi, not the ogre?
Matt: No, the tabaxi said that.
Taliesin: That's my name.
Marisha: Wait.
Travis: Lucien Nonagon.
Matt: Basically what was said was, "I'm sorry for saying your old name, Nonagon." Was correcting Lucien to Mollymauk.
Marisha: Wait, is Nonagon like a slang for-- or like a word for sorry?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Who can keep track these days? Again, a long story.
Matt: "Nonagon, what happened? We watched you die."
Taliesin: That is a story for another day and another drink. What did you see? God, I don't know what that looked like from the other end of things. MATT "Well, it all went belly up two years ago. You told us to scatter and vanish if it didn't-- if things went wrong and wait until you returned. We buried your ass in the woods outside of the hideout, I mean-- "
Taliesin: It may not have necessarily been my ass that you buried.
Matt: "Apparently."
Taliesin: I had a few tricks up my sleeve.
Matt: (laughs) "Well, that spell-spitter lady from the capital. She said you were gone, she took the book and left, and her contract said she was in the right and that we knew better than to go toe to toe with her and her ilk."
Taliesin: Obviously. Is everybody else all right? I know it has been a while. I had to stay underground.
Matt: "Unfortunately, Jurrel met with the axe of the law shortly after you left us."
Taliesin: Damn shame.
Matt: "Zoran, Ottis, and Tyffial have all scattered amongst the empire..."
Taliesin: Damn shame.
Matt: "But, do you want me to find the others?"
Taliesin: No, actually I'm--
Matt: "I know where Tyffial is!"
Taliesin: Where is Tyffial? I would rather obviously deliver everything in person. Honestly if I had known you were here I would've made arrangements. I didn't want to shock you.
Matt: "She's up in Nogvurot. We can travel there, I can send a message and have her come down to us."
Taliesin: I'm working on something very delicate, I need everything to be very quiet.
Matt: "Very well, Nonagon."
Liam: I apologize, I'm not very observant. I missed your name.
Taliesin: Where are my manners?
Matt: "My apologies. My name is Cree."
Liam: Cree?
Matt: "I am a member of the, well, the family around-- how much do they know?"
Sam: We know a lot!
Ashley: We pretty much know all of it, so.
Sam: We were told the name of the group that you traveled with, but I can't remember it now.
Taliesin: They don't know a lot, but they're trustworthy. I've been putting my trust in them so far.
Ashley: I do, I know all of it, so you can just tell me if you want to.
Taliesin: That's actually fair.
Matt: Make a deception check, both of you.
Sam: Me?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I'm the worst. 13.
Taliesin: Technically advantage because it's kind of the truth?
Matt: Technically? All right, sure, I'll give you that.
Ashley: I got a ten, but technically I know-- I'm rolling at advantage?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think that's advantage. I begged for advantage on that one.
Matt: I'll give you that.
Ashley: 16.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you.
Matt: "Well, we were all part of the same order at one point, and we splintered off. Luci-- Nonagon had a different path in mind for us, so we went north to Shady Creek Run and we started the Tomb Takers. It's just so good to see you."
Taliesin: It's good to be seen again. But again, it's got to be very quiet right now. It's been like three other names since the last time I saw you.
Matt: "I should inform the others."
Taliesin: Please, keep it quiet for now. That book caused more trouble than you think, and it all laid on my shoulders. I was trying to protect the rest of you from some of the worst elements of that and I don't want any heat dropping on anybody who doesn't know what's coming yet.
Matt: "Of course."
Taliesin: But let me know where they are and I'll get a hold of them. But don't let them know why yet.
Matt: The tabaxi curls in a little bit, leans over the table towards you with this big grin and says, "Does this mean that it worked?"
Taliesin: (sighs) That's, again, mixed company and public company.
Sam: No, you can tell us about the ritual! Ritual?
Matt: There's a look of recognition.
Sam: Yes, it was successful! Remind me what it was again? There's been so many rituals lately!
Taliesin: Mixed results.
Liam: You were mentioning this group, the Tomb Takers. You had another name before. Were you a group and our friend joined you at some point?
Matt: "Well, he led us away from the original order. They were a bit... clouded. We had a new path."
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: And what was the name of the original order you were a part of?
Sam: Not the Tomb Takers, that was the splinter group, right?
Liam: The one that came before.
Matt: There's a few looks now of-- the euphoria is washing away from the face.
Taliesin: You don't have to tell them anything you don't want to tell them, that's all right.
Ashley: Was he your new path?
Matt: "He brought us onto a new path, yes."
Liam: What was your unifying trait or pursuit?
Taliesin: Foolishness in thinking I knew what I was doing.
Sam: That is not a good answer!
Taliesin: That's the answer you're getting.
Travis: This is all well and good and kind of fucking boring. I couldn't help but notice that surly-looking crew up there, who might that be?
Matt: "Oh, these are all members of The Gentleman's troupe, as am I." At which point the tabaxi, Cree, turns back and looks, and you can see in the far back right corner of the chamber there is a long, dark mahogany well-carved table. There you see standing, arms crossed, a very muscular-looking goliath female with a very short leather strap top, shaved sides of the head in a tuft of a mohawk that curls down into a long ponytail that goes down the back, who's glaring in your direction. Sitting beside this burly-looking goliath you see a high-backed chair with a red velvet matte. Sitting feet crossed up on the table in a nice, long deep-blue coat, leather-gloved hands, light teal skin, jet-black hair that's long, just past the shoulders, a widow's peak in the center, a bit of a dark goatee, male figure standing there, hands entwined and crossed, looking at you from across the way with a curious grin. "The Gentleman."
Taliesin: You work for The Gentleman these days?
Matt: "We had to find work, we didn't know if you were ever coming back. We thought-- so we had to move on. We knew you'd eventually return, I just did not know how long and we had to make ends meet."
Taliesin: How is it, working for The Gentleman?
Matt: "Work is fine--" You hear a (clapping) from The Gentleman. "So! We have company. Strangers in our midst." He rights himself in the chair. "Please, come before me. Present yourselves! I want to know who has graced us with their majestic presence. Come, come." The finger goes up and you watch as everyone holding the rifles cock them and point down at you.
Sam: Fjord, say something!
Matt: "Come!"
Taliesin: I'm looking at our friend.
Matt: Cree goes--
Taliesin: All right, I'll saunter over with my drink and sit down at the table. Come on everyone, let's do this.
Matt: So you all go and sit? There's a long bench there on the opposite side of this table where you can either stand or sit, since there's quite a few of you.
Ashley: I'll stand.
Matt: Jester is like, "I don't know what's going on." Sorry, Laura. I don't know what the fuck Jester would do. Jester is the most random character.
Liam: She's going Homer Simpson, running circles around.
Taliesin: She's giving out leaflets.
Liam: I will also stand.
Matt: As you guys approach you hear this (wheezing laughter). There's the second balcony that was facing in the direction where you entered. As you look up you can see there's another rifleman standing, and hanging by one arm off the side, you see this crazed-looking young gnome with this big mound of curly hair and this big chinstrap beard who's just dangling going (wheezing laughter), looking over you all from a distance really creepily. The ogre's there still, hand on the maul. "So. Introductions, please! I think I have an idea who you are, but I want to hear it from your mouths. Please, tell me."
Travis: Humbly, we are members of The Mighty Nein.
Matt: "I knew it, I knew it! (laughs) Oh, this is a gracious day. Very well. Welcome to the real Evening Nip. Pleasure to have you, each and every one of you. I've seen you around upstairs, wandering and skulking a bit. I didn't know you were part of this mighty troupe."
Ashley: Well, I hang out with them, but I actually like the drinks here a lot, so.
Matt: "Much better down here. Speaking of which, a round please!" The bartender, looking a bit frightened on the side, starts filling tankards. "All right, so. What brings such esteemed adventurers to my pocket of the underworld?"
Travis: Well, we sought an audience, and to be frank, we thought we might find a little bit more of a warm reception than the one that we're currently getting.
Matt: "Oh! I'm sorry." They pull the rifles off you. "Habit. Safety, you understand."
Travis: Oh of course, easily understood.
Matt: "So. You have my audience."
Travis: We mean to make ourselves of service, whether it be for the good of the city or other endeavors. We're new here. We thought we would try to make as many introductions and have as many meetings happen as we could.
Matt: "Interesting. I have one question, before we get too deep in this conversation. How did you find your way in here?"
Marisha: I'm a bit of an enthusiast of the underworld. So I came across some information.
Matt: "Go on."
Marisha: Demedan got his order of bloodroot. It was really good.
Matt: "Demedan gave you this information?"
Marisha: No, Demedan was clumsy with his information.
Matt: "Equally dangerous, good to know. Remember that." The goliath cracks knuckles. "All right, so. Interesting. Now you know the way in. That's dangerous, as we've just made acquaintances and you now know the direct path into my domain. So to make this a comfortable conversation and possibly an arrangement going forward that we can all agree upon, I have one small request."
Travis: Oh, I'm sure we'd be all ears.
Matt: "Cree! Please." The tabaxi who was in the back goes, "Yes, of course." Steps over to the side of the bar and picks up a small leather satchel, puts it over her shoulder, walks up behind the table, opens it, and pulls out an alchemist rack of a bunch of corked vials, like small vials, opens it, and says, "I need, just-- and bear with me, please-- just a small bit of your blood. The reasoning being, if I can't trust you, and you can't trust me, how am I to know you aren't going to turn me in immediately outside to the King's Hall? And I need some means in case you just abscond with this information: perhaps make an arrangement with me and then leave town. I need to find you."
Travis: Oh, of course, and forgive my ignorance. This would be used to locate us? Is that what this is for?
Matt: Oh, that is Cree's speciality.
Taliesin: It is definitely Cree's speciality.
Travis: Yeah, fuck it.
Matt: As you pull your hand out, Cree does a flick of the finger, and you watch as the blood trails off on its own like a small serpent of mercury and just (flowing). For a second, even though it was a small wound, it's bleeding quite a bit and you're like, "Uh." It makes you a little uncomfortable and then all of a sudden the blood flow stops. The vial is filled about an inch full, then she caps it. "Thank you so much."
Travis: How did you do that?
Matt: "It's a gift that I learned the same place where the Nonagon's gifts were found."
Taliesin: Lucien, at the table, is fine.
Matt: "Lucien."
Travis: Right.
Matt: "Next."
Taliesin: I trust you with this. Don't get fancy.
Matt: Same thing. Fills the next vial, a strange, almost an arc of crimson finds its way and fills a secondary tube. There's like twelve tubes there, but she'll fill as many as needed for this one.
Travis: (laughs) Don't like it, do you?
Marisha: Can I borrow a tusk?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Goes ahead and acquires the blood from you. Jester goes, "Me too, me too!" Feeling left out in the moment, gives her blood as well.
Sam: Caleb, are we doing this?
Matt: "No harm will come to you, unless you bring harm to me. So this is just a precautionary measure. I appreciate your trust."
Travis: Three to go? One, two, three?
Matt: With that, your blood is taken into a vial.
Sam: All right, I'll follow suit.
Matt: Your blood is also taken into a vial.
Sam: (hisses)
Matt: Easy enough to do! (spurting)
Ashley: Fair enough. I take my finger and I run it across my blade as I stare at him.
Matt: The blood is drawn into the vial, the final vial is capped, Cree closes the satchel, places it on the shoulder, and then bows and steps back, paying direct attention to The Gentleman and then out of the corner of her eye, towards you. "Fantastic, I really appreciate that." You're getting a closer look now, of The Gentleman. The teal skin tone-- it's interesting. It looks almost like he's perpetually sweating. There's moisture on the outskirts of his skin at all times. There's the faint hint of, whether it be condensation from the air around or produced internally, there's a general sense of dampness to the skin of this figure. "So an arrangement, you say. First off, just because it's fun for me, are you believers in luck?"
Taliesin: Not anymore.
Travis: Yes, I'd say I am.
Matt: "That destiny is looking out for you? I've seen enough in my time and have lived in spite of it all because something wants me here. Would you consider yourselves lucky?"
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Good. Then let's gamble."
Marisha: Then what?
Matt: Then let's gamble.
Marisha: Oh. (laughs)
Travis: Are you writing that down?
Sam: Let's gamble.
Matt: "I want to know how lucky my investments are. Gambit of Ord? Who wishes to face me in this? Who feels the luckiest of your band?"
Travis: Shit. Where's the fucking luck of Jester?
Marisha: I know. She's at home.
Sam: I watched her play last time, I could do-- I don't-- (stutters)
Travis: I could as well.
Sam: Why don't you do it? I'll just drink-- I need just a little loosener.
Travis: All right. I feel lucky.
Matt: "All right. Great. One pass. 50 gold buy-in. If I win, you're mine. If you win, then we can do business."
Travis: Deal.
Matt: "All right." He goes and pulls, beneath the table, a satchel of gold. Pulls out a handful of gold and plops it on the table. You watch on the side as the creepy gnomish figure that was hanging from the balcony earlier leaps down, (creepy chuckling) comes up and he pulls out a set of cards and is shuffling them in his hand as he steps around the side. He's now flanking the right side of The Gentleman, so you have the large goliath on one side, the small, creepy gnome on the other, shuffling the cards. Hands the deck to The Gentleman, does one final cut, sets it down. "So what's your name?"
Travis: Fjord.
Matt: "Fjord. Let us deal." Did you put 50 gold on the table?
Travis: No. Now I do.
Taliesin: There was nothing fishy in the card shuffle, in the cut, was there?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Ooh, get 'em!
Taliesin: Let's do it. 12.
Matt: Seemed to be above board.
Marisha: I'm going to keep an eye on the deal as well.
Matt: Okay. The first cards are dealt out for the first round. This is Gambit of Ord. This is different from The Crick-Queen's Call. This is a Marquesian card game. Roll a d8, but keep it hidden to yourself. All right. "So now, I'm going to go ahead and raise another 50 gold." (clinking) Onto the table.
Travis: My goodness, this is getting expensive quite fast.
Matt: "Well, we deal with quite a large amount of business."
Travis: (yawning) 50 gold.
Matt: So you put another 50 gold?
Travis: Mm-hmm.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll a d6, and keep that secret alongside that die. "Do you wish to raise?"
Travis: You first.
Matt: "I raised first last time. I'm offering you the chance to raise if you'd like."
Travis: Funny how that works. No, I'm good where I am.
Matt: "Interesting. I'll raise another 50 gold."
Sam: Oh god.
Travis: Sounds good. 50 it is.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d4. He's holding his cards in his hand, looks across at you, looks all throughout the room. "Well, Fjord, looks like it's time to call."
Travis: What, we're not going to bet again? (silence)
Matt: Puts another 100 gold on the table.
Travis: Let's make it 150.
Matt: (laughs) "Very well."
Travis: (mutters) That's all the money I have.
Sam: Have we seen anything suspicious from the deals, or the--
Liam: (as Jester) Jester wants you to know that from home she is watching The Gentleman and making sure he is not cheating.
Matt: Make an insight check for Jester, and you make an insight check as well, since you were both keeping a close eye on that.
Liam: Oh, she rolled really well. What's her modifier, added to an 18?
Sam: Plus four.
Liam: Oh, 22.
Matt: 22? Actually, there has been no weirdness with the cards. This is a straight test of luck.
Liam: (as Jester) Oh, this man has the Luck feat.
Matt: Yeah, you don't see anything, nothing that catches you off.
Marisha: Yeah, I rolled less than Jester.
Matt: So, we're now at a pot of 150 times two, 50 times two, so 600 gold, I believe, right? 50, 50, 50, and the 150.
Travis: (counting) So 500.
Sam: Did you start with 50, though?
Matt: We started with 50, and then we raised 50, and then raised 50, so that was 150. So it's 600 on the table.
Travis: I can do math.
Matt: 300 from each of them. "All right." He presents the dice that he had rolled, or the cards that he had found, which is a five, a four, and a one. A grand total of ten.
Marisha: Oh my god, come on, Fjord.
Travis: A seven, a five, and a three. (cheering)
Marisha: Oh my god.
Sam: That's the first thing we've ever won. (laughter)
Matt: As soon as you reveal the cards there's a (gasp). A gasp in the room and The Gentleman, his muscles tense for a second and he goes, (laughs) "Well-played and well earned! Take the coin, it's yours."
Travis: Thank you. Nice hand.
Matt: "Good to know that we have luck on your side as well. That's very important to me with people I do business with. So (clears throat) you have some balls throwing down that change and going into a game with me, I like that. So what can our many gifts and my associates present to you? What are your strengths? What are your skills? I've heard you've done some deeds. I've heard you killed some terrible creature in the sewers, is that correct?"
Sam: We did. Yes. We fought and killed a giant spider of sorts.
Matt: "Right, which helped tremendously because we use the sewers quite often. That had become an issue with some of our transference in the subterranean sewers of the city. And unfortunately, the underworks themselves have been a bit clogged as of late. So thank you for that. And one of our compatriots--" and he points up to one of the balconies on the side, and you can see, behind the individual that had the rifle, you see Kara, the half-elf.
Marisha: Oh, I was going to ask for her.
Matt: Who's stepping forward, ever so slightly. And says, "One of our compatriots has kept us up to speed about your infiltrations. I have to say, I'm impressed."
Liam: Ja, then you probably know we are not the best you're going to find, but we are up and comers.
Matt: "Not too bad."
Travis: Very versatile I'd have to say though. Balanced.
Liam: Good skill set.
Taliesin: High profile, but low profile.
Matt: "Well, we are a company that specializes in the completion of the tasks and trading of things. Perhaps not the most legal. Things that are restricted by the empire. That means our skills are best through speed, subterfuge, darkness. We don't have the best, aside for muscle besides from, well (laughs) I do keep Sorah by my side, just in case."
Sam: Is that the goliath?
Matt: That is the goliath he refers to.
Sam: Sorad?
Matt: Sorah.
Liam: (singing) Que Sorah, Sorah.
Marisha: Wait the goliath or the ogre?
Matt: The goliath.
Travis: The goliath.
Marisha: The--
Liam: The mohawk lady.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: We're very strong.
Matt: "Very good."
Sam: As you can see, Yasha is very strong.
Matt: "Well, you've caused enough chaos in the Tri-Spire. You brought down one of the more corrupt, though strangely uncorruptible from our end, politicians we've seen. And from what I hear, Lord Sutan is already in chains." (chuckles)
Sam: (quickly) We don't know anything about that. We had nothing to do with it.
Travis: Nott, I think--
Taliesin: She's quick to toe the party line.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "That's fine. We'll see how long Sutan stays in there, he has his ways. Depending on how strong a case you've left behind, and a little finagling on our end, if our partnership grows mutually beneficial, perhaps we could push that over the edge for him, and keep him away for quite some time. Now apparently I've also heard they're still seeking the murderers of the High-Richter. Particularly a purple-skinned tiefling who was spotted not far from the home that night, with rather ostentatious clothing. As well as a wandering dark-skinned youth, a woman with physical capability. So that doesn't bode well for you, does it?"
Marisha: Sucks being in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Matt: "Well, as seeing as how we're friends now, I can say that I could probably make this investigation go away."
Marisha: Is this an investigation that you caused to begin with?
Matt: (laughs) "No, this is an investigation that you caused."
Marisha: Doing your bidding.
Matt: "No."
Marisha: Through one of your associates.
Matt: "My associate was making sure that the events would transpire in our favor. But nevertheless, we were not the orchestrators of The Knights of Requital."
Liam: Let's assume this is not a gift you are offering, what is it that you are looking for in return?
Matt: "Oh, well, many gifts come once we've established a partnership. We become friends now, and I like friendship. That's great; that's fine. But I deal in trade mostly. So I would like a favor in kind." He leans forwards a bit, and you can see some of the condensation slowly dripping down the side of the face. Making a few spots on the table.
Sam: I'll offer him a napkin.
Matt: As you hold a napkin out, the eyes catch you for a second. The head turns, confused for a second.
Taliesin: Just-- (laughter)
Taliesin: Great thought, not now. Good thought.
Sam: He seems like he needs--
Taliesin: (shushing)
Sam: He's schvitzing. I mean it's not even humid in here. (whispering) He's got a problem.
Matt: "About a mile out of the underworks, beneath the city. Down the underground river pass that our shipments to the Ounterloch and Berleben pass through, one of my men noticed a strange wall uncovered by time. We sent a team of our best infiltrators to see what this was about. Within, a purple light, and the promise of ancient spoils seemed to peek from within. Some sort of abandoned research facility from ages past. Well my curiosity got the better of me. So we sent the team inward to seek it out. But amongst these few gold-laden objects that enticed my men-- they are a superstitious lot-- and upon being beset by series of phantom globes they fled and collapsed the entrance behind them." You see him glare past you and hear the shifting of a few pieces of armor as three individuals avert their gaze. (sighs) "So those fucks have failed. I would like you to return to that site for me. Find a way in. Inquire within. Seek and seeing as how you are so good at eliminating monstrous beasts, clearing the space of any dangers, hostile creatures. Return with any of your findings. Do this for me and I will see that the scent is thrown off you permanently. I'll even let you keep some of the spoils."
Travis: This is most intriguing. I hope we would be able to interview your previous compatriots. We'd like to know what they saw before, what we might expect.
Matt: "Of course. By all means. Do we have a deal?"
Travis: To clear our name here in Zadash?
Sam: How do we know that you can clear our name? We've proven to you that we're lucky. You know our reputation. We don't know anything about you.
Matt: "Let's say I've lived and worked a solid 15 years orchestrating the seedy underbelly of this entire city. I've never been caught, I've never been arrested, and I thrive on a pile of gold and riches you can only begin to imagine."
Taliesin: I'm beginning to imagine it right now, actually.
Matt: "Good."
Taliesin: That's very nice.
Liam: Insight check.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: I bet he edubates on that pile of gold. (laughter)
Taliesin: That is certainly one to grow on.
Liam: Not good enough. That's a twelve.
Matt: I mean, he's a shifty individual being by nature. But it's hard to get a sense of whether or not he would be trying to lie.
Liam: Yeah. He's sweating, he must be nervous.
Sam: If I may, we passed a test for you. Would you pass one for us?
Matt: (laughs) "Little one, (laughs) you intrigue me. Young green-skin, so overtly walking amongst the nobles above, and yet you've kept your throat. That says a lot about you. Yes, please tell me, what would this trial be, you would ask of The Gentleman?"
Sam: May I have three of those vials? Just the empty ones.
Matt: "Cree." Fumbles in the pouch and brings out three of the empty glass vials, and hands them over to you.
Sam: If I were to fill two of these vials with ordinary alcohol and one with something else, would you be able to tell which is which? With your discerning eye and your years of experience?
Matt: "Hmm. Certainly, I feel confident."
Marisha: Take the Pepsi challenge.
Sam: I'll take out my shitty flask, as my good one is gone. Fill two vials with alcohol and then take out my vial of acid and pour it into the third. Are they reasonably the same colorish?
Matt: Reasonably. I'd say the alcohol is a bit more brackish. The acid itself is a little more translucent, but you could possibly add a little bit of alcohol to it.
Sam: All right, I'll take a little splash of alcohol and some darker stuff and mix it around.
Matt: You're an alchemist, you've dealt with varying chemicals. So I'd say, given a moment, you could go ahead and match it fairly close, sure.
Sam: All right, this one is the acid; these two are booze. And now I will try to (rapid movement)--
Taliesin: Doesn't actually switch hands, you just do this a lot.
Liam: Never mess with a goblin when death is on the line!
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check versus his perception.
Travis: You're going to kill The Gentleman.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15 total?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right, you present the vials.
Sam: If you die, I'm sorry.
Matt: (chuckles) "This one is alcohol. This one is alcohol. This one is acid." And takes the acid from your grasp and uncorks it and drinks it.
Sam: Ooh shit, that's baller!
Matt: So roll the damage for your acid.
Marisha: Some Inigo Montoya shit.
Sam: I don't know what to roll. It's 1d6 or something. What do I-- I got to look.
Matt: It should be on your break down of your--
Sam: It's here. Acid vial.
Ashley: He's awesome.
Matt: I have it here actually.
Sam: 2d6.
Matt: So yeah, roll 2d6.
Taliesin: That is so baller. Oh my god.
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11. All right, so he (slight cough) (grunts) downs it, but it doesn't seem to have as much of an effect on him. It looks like it hurt, and he takes it. The muscles tense a bit, the face twitches as it goes down and it burns. But then he takes the vial and corks it again, rolls it across the table. (coughs) "Does that satisfy your inquiry?"
Sam: (gulp) (gulp) Yep, yeah, that's good. That was impressive. I mean, you pass the test, sir.
Matt: (chuckles) "Good, good. I like it."
Taliesin: I will say the only thing that I can think of that I would want, not even necessarily addend to this contract, if we are going to do this to you; I'm looking to stay on the down low in general. If we can agree, even my presence in this city necessarily is, as far as it's concerned, is none of anybody's concern outside this bar. I would be forever grateful.
Matt: "We deal well in secrecy, my friend."
Taliesin: I figured you would.
Matt: "Lucien, was it?"
Taliesin: Sometimes.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well."
Travis: Sir, I couldn't help but hear that this is about a mile outside of the city. Is that correct?
Matt: "Correct."
Travis: Are you operating on any sort of a timeline? Might we have a little bit of lenience with how quickly we get this dealt with?
Matt: "The sooner the better, because we can begin opening that line. We've now two weeks and three shipments lost."
Travis: I've just had a thought, actually, if you could help us at the same time, we're trying to get a friend of ours out of the city. And (coughs) recent events seem to have clogged up most entries and exits. We have a friend, Horris, that needs to find his way to a safe spot.
Marisha: Kara knows him, real well.
Matt: "Right, this would be Dolan's partner, yes?"
Travis: Indeed.
Matt: "Hmm."
Travis: Discretion is appreciated.
Matt: "We specialize in discretion and specialize in smuggling. And specialize in people."
Travis: Figured you might.
Matt: "So you do this deed, we'll consider it part of your gift."
Travis: Outstanding. I think we have a deal, do we not?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I find all of this very agreeable.
Matt: "Good, very good, quiet one. Now we have access to the tunnels. Of course we'll have to blindfold you to bring you through the underworks to the tunnel that leads to this underground river, when you decide to leave. Just because there's a lot of secrets down here, and we're still building our trust. But come back in whenever you're ready. We'll be happy to escort you and send you on your way."
Travis: Outstanding.
Ashley: How long do you keep our blood for?
Matt: "Oh, as long as we have our arrangements."
Ashley: But we get it back when we're done? Or we decide not to work with you anymore?
Matt: "If you've proven yourself trustworthy enough, in the long term, perhaps. But understand that this is just a precaution. Who's to know? Perhaps things go sour in a few months. I want to make sure you don't double cross me and send the guard down."
Marisha: Does it look like he's speaking from experience? He's a little twitchy.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: (grumbling) 14.
Matt: It's more that he's lived this long by being careful. And when a bunch of strangers find this secret pass into his lair, he wants to be damn well sure that he knows where to find you if need be.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Fair enough.
Ashley: Fair enough.
Taliesin: Remember, the name Lucien doesn't leave this bar. Outside, I never want to hear it uttered.
Matt: "I don't know who any of you are outside this bar."
Taliesin: Brilliant.
Matt: "Don't worry. Anyway," and he throws his feet back up on the table . "Drinks are on me, until you make your leave."
Travis: Fantastic! Nott, pace yourself now, you hear?
Sam: (growling) (nervous humming)
Taliesin: Quality, not quantity.
Travis: Is that goliath wielding any sort of visible weapon?
Matt: At the moment, it does not appear there's a weapon immediately on the goliath, but as you look behind, in the corner right behind the chair where The Gentleman sits, there looks to be one hefty-ass maul. A giant chunk of solid metal with a long handle on it that is resting against the stone.
Travis: Ogre and the goliath mauls each. Fuck.
Matt: They like to break things.
Marisha: Who were the two guys that said that they passed out trying to get away from the creepy, ancient facility?
Travis: Oh yeah, they were armored behind us?
Matt: Yeah, there's three guys. There's the bar in the chamber. Next to that, to the right of the actual bar, there's a doorway that opens up into a storeroom. It's underneath the top balcony. Underneath the balcony, right next to where the ogre is posting watch in the center of the tavern, the three of them are sitting off to the side, looking uncomfortable. They were sitting earlier, and since all of this happened they stood to attention and haven't found a comfortable moment to sit down.
Marisha: Just shifty, rogue-y underbelly types?
Matt: Yeah. You look over and you see two of them appear to be human. Relatively young, probably mid to late 20s. Scruffy-looking. One of them has a darker, fro-y hair that's unkempt and covering part of his face. The other one has very short cut hair, dark complexion, brown red. They're both wearing darker leathers and cloaks that are thrown over one shoulder. They're holding tankards in their hand and they're both talking amongst each other while keeping an eye on you.
Travis: That group looks like your type. Feel like making friends?
Marisha: My favorite pastime.
Matt: The third one appears to be a halfling female who is sitting in a corner, quietly sipping out of the tankard and looking nervously around.
Marisha: Want to accompany me?
Travis: I would love to.
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: Just the two of you approaching?
Marisha: Sure. Anyone else wants to join.
Taliesin: I'm taking a long look at Cree and I want to see if I see any of the things that I expect to see.
Travis: What do you expect to see there, T?
Sam: You know. Dander.
Taliesin: I want to see if there's any markings or anything otherwise that I would expect to see.
Matt: Oh. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Why are you locking your iPad between every move?
Taliesin: Because it's better that way. Perception check. Wow, that's a terrible roll. That's a five.
Matt: A fur-covered tabaxi, it's hard to make any details out beyond the fur, unfortunately.
Taliesin: All right. That's fair.
Matt: The two of you approach the corner. Kara is watching you as you step past, and steps back on the balcony, out of sight.
Marisha: I give her a little (clicks tongue) when I walk by.
Matt: She goes--
Marisha: Deal with that later.
Travis: Yeah, I was going to say the same thing.
Matt: As you approach the two gentlemen and the female halfling, they just watch you. They don't engage you verbally at all, they just keep an eye.
Marisha: I grab one of the half-drinken beers from someone else's table and set it down and be like, here you go. I got this for you.
Liam: That was mine. (laughter)
Matt: He takes it. The guy with the larger curly hair takes it and pours it into his own and sets it back down. "Thank you."
Marisha: Heard you guys got all heebie jeebie and passed out in your last little mission.
Matt: "Well--" and the other guy elbows him and he's like, (whispering) "Shut up!"
Marisha: No, that's cool! We're here to clean up y'all's shit.
Matt: "Look, we signed up for this to make quick money. We're good at moving quickly. We're good at seeing what's worthwhile. We're good at picking things out. We're not good at dealing with spooky fucking undead ghost things, okay? We went in, we went through this path. We found a crack in the wall. We kicked it down. We went inside. There was a staircase. Went up and down. Went downstairs, it seemed empty. It was confusing. We didn't see anything of interest. Went upstairs the staircase-- the little spiral staircase-- and there was a much larger chamber. We started looking around for anything worthwhile. It looked like it got picked clean long ago. Dust everywhere. The more we began to look, there was this cold temperature in the room, and eventually these little lights began to come out of the wall. At first, we were curious by them. One of them got really close to Therad over there. He suddenly shocked in a serious jolt." And you see him on the back, looking a bit spooked, recalling the story. He goes, "We knew then, these-- whatever the fuck these things were-- they weren't friends of ours. So we got our shit and we ran. We had a small explosive, so we threw it behind us to collapse the wall, hoping that at least it would slow them down. We realized, in hindsight, that it was pretty stupid because, if they were spectral enough to come out of the walls, they still could have followed us. We got up the river from there. We got our boats and made our way back."
Travis: Let me get this straight. A bunch of fucking floating lights came out of the wall, gave your boy a little static shock, and you ran?
Matt: They both look at each other and look at the halfling. The halfling's like, "I wasn't going to stay behind!"
Travis: Yeah. Well, they're calling in the big leaguers now, so we'll take it from here. Your way up and down those stairs you mentioned, you get tripped up along the way, or was it just easy sailing?
Marisha: Any traps?
Matt: "We didn't go into the bottom chamber. That looked ominous enough. We stuck to the top one."
Marisha: What?
Travis: What about it was ominous?
Matt: "It's just a big octagonal dome chamber. Had this faint purple-ish glow on the inside-- "
Marisha: Are you afraid of geometry? I don't--
Travis: Yeah. Scared of school.
Marisha: Yeah, sure.
Travis: Yeah. Old terrors.
Matt: "Look, you can come by and sass me all you fucking want. I've been here for two years. You newcomers walk in here and think you're all tough shit! You think it's so great? Go! Go in there! Come back!"
Sam: Trying to throw it in the garbage, but it hit your balloon.
Marisha: I saw the whole--
Liam: Still a game.
Matt: "You think you're tough shit? You go take care of it."
Travis: I appreciate your passion. I don't think you're in great favor in this room, at the moment. You see that really tall woman over there with that big greatsword on her back? She doesn't appreciate when people talk to us like that.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: Do I see him point at me?
Liam: Flex.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13?
Travis: No, 15. Sorry.
Matt: 15. He's looking over at you. You can see him swallowing hard.
Ashley: I put my hand on my hilt and I pull it out a little bit.
Matt: "Hey, no, I understand that. That's great. Looks like you guys are much more well-equipped for this shit than we are. Look, I'm not saying we're better than you. We're better at some things. You're better at others. That's why they're sending you in, because we can't fight fucking ghosts. You go for it!"
Marisha: We're just giving you a hard time, man. It's fun. The whole time this was happening, I was rubbing my feet against the ground, building up a static shock.
Matt: It's stone, but sure. (laughter)
Marisha: Okay, rubbing against Fjord. Like this.
Travis: My shag armor.
Marisha: Just waiting for it. All right, thank you so much, man.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: All right, good. (laughter) Sorry, can't help it.
Travis: Did you three have a name?
Liam: The Mighty Drei.
Travis: Don't be ashamed if you don't.
Matt: The guy who's talking to you says, "That's Hannah there. I'm Louis." He pauses for a moment, shakes your hand. "Now go get this thing."
Travis: Don't worry. We'll clean it up for you. Enjoy your drinks. Going to join the others.
Taliesin: Yasha. Do I deal with this or do I not deal with this?
Ashley: I think you should deal with this.
Taliesin: I don't want to deal with this.
Ashley: Does any of this sound familiar to you from the past?
Taliesin: I hate this. I'm going to stand up, and walk over to Cree.
Matt: Okay. Cree is still standing by the bar with the satchel on. As you stand up and start approaching, she smiles.
Taliesin: A lifetime ago.
Matt: "Indeed. I can tell you it's so good to see you."
Taliesin: I have a weird question, and I apologize for it. The spell I used to get away, it-- I wasn't there for as long as you thought I was. I missed how everything ended in the end. I hate to ask, but I was long gone before anything really started to go down. How did everything end? Can you just-- I'll explain why in a moment.
Matt: "Well, you had acquired the tome with the ritual spell that you required to attempt to reach the city. That lady-- I don't remember her name. The spell slinger from the capital. She came and oversaw and performed the ritual for you. I don't trust those folk, but I trust you, and if you trusted, than that was enough for me. You gave us a speech. We had a fine meal. We all got ready there in the forest."
Taliesin: That's where I lost you, then.
Matt: "She said it would be hard for us to tell whether or not it worked at first, but we went and checked, and you were not breathing. For a good hour, you were not breathing and you had gone cold. We knew then that-- that we had lost you. We checked, and I'm very attuned to vitals, as you know. There was no heartbeat. So we waited longer. The sun rose, and nothing. So, as you told us, if anything were to go wrong, we had to get rid of any sign, any trace. So, not far from the Tomb Taker hideout, we buried you and we went our separate ways. She took the tome, the mage woman, it was part of the arrangement you had with her."
Taliesin: I'm going to have to find her again at some point. The reason I've stayed quiet-- It was never going to work. Somebody was working against me. I don't know who, but I can't trust anyone. I saw how you reacted to seeing me and it was-- I'm willing to believe it wasn't you who turned. But it could have been her, but it could have been one of us. That's why I need you to keep it quiet. Please.
Matt: Make a deception check. You're starting to get in deep into this now.
Travis: Deception check?
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Can I wander over and see if I can overhear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: 12.
Matt: You start wandering over, but there's too much noise and general din in the chamber around you to make anything out.
Taliesin: There will come a moment when I can tell you everything, but... It's so complicated. Please just keep it quiet for now.
Matt: "Of course."
Taliesin: Until I know that everyone's going to react the way that you did to seeing me.
Matt: "Right, of course, Lucien."
Taliesin: I will tell you everything eventually.
Matt: "Please, please do."
Taliesin: I give a hug.
Matt: There's a moment pause, and then Cree takes in the hug too.
Taliesin: It's been too long.
Matt: There's a faint purr in the ear, and then you hear the voice whisper, "It's good to see you."
Taliesin: I'm sorry for everything. And I give the pat, and head back to the table.
Matt: "Me too." As you walk away.
Liam: While that conversation happens. Can I speak to you? Just for a second?
Travis: Of course.
Liam: That was a princely sum you just wagered with there.
Travis: Yeah. Good thing I won, huh?
Liam: Yes, it is. That wouldn't have, by any chance, have been recompense for everything we did the other night? Or are you rolling in it?
Travis: Am I rolling in it?
Liam: Yeah, I'm wondering if you just wagered the party's funds. On a very calculated risk.
Travis: Oh. No, I was actually only gambling my funds.
Liam: So you come with funds on you.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Do you know, I would be all right if you had? I am a fan of calculated risks.
Travis: Are you?
Liam: Yeah. But it was just, you know-- You're flush. I understand.
Travis: At the moment.
Liam: Insight check.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: 17.
Travis: I'm telling the truth. I hadn't even divvied up that amount from Dolan and everybody else.
Matt: Yeah. Seems forthright.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Good to know. Calculated risks. I'll keep that in mind. I thought you liked to play things close to the chest.
Liam: If the reward is good and it's not stupid.
Travis: Sometimes you got to get a little stupid, though.
Liam: Maybe. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk over with a new round of drinks. Here, drink this. I'm told they're stupid. Ugh.
Marisha: Molly, you have-- Sorry, Lucien.
Travis: No, that's not it either.
Marisha: Sorry, Non--Nongatek.
Taliesin: Lucien for the moment. We'll talk about it later.
Ashley: Would you like us to call you Lucien or do you want us to call you Molly?
Taliesin: In here, we're Lucien.
Liam: How many names are there? Is it over ten or under?
Taliesin: Let's have that conversation somewhere else. I don't know who's listening here.
Marisha: She seemed real into you, but not in an into you like "I want to tap that" kind of into you, but in an "I've watched you walk on water" type of into you.
Taliesin: Yeah, that was a weird amount of into you, wasn't it?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Can you change that alcohol into wine?
Taliesin: I'm going to cut my finger a bit and bleed into it.
Liam: With one of your long fingernails?
Marisha: Holy shit. You know, to a dumbass, that actually is convincing.
Travis: It's alcohol one way or the other. I'll fucking drink.
Taliesin: Is it wine?
Matt: No, it's bloody water. It's water with a hint of iron aftertaste.
Taliesin: Worth a try.
Liam: Write what you know, Taliesin.
Travis: Molly-- Excuse me, Lucien.
Marisha: Nantucket.
Travis: How many others around here might we expect to have that same reaction towards you?
Taliesin: We will have this conversation outside this bar.
Marisha: This is basically Taliesin at Ren Faire.
Travis: Yeah!
Travis: Lord Taliesin!
Marisha: Lord Taliesin!
Liam: Taliesin, there's tabaxis coming out of every stall. What the hell, man?
Taliesin: Lucien's not going to answer any questions. Molly will answer every question you have later.
Sam: If you're not going to answer any questions, can we please direct some to Yasha over here?
Taliesin: Thank you for coming back, I've missed you.
Sam: Where were you? Where'd you go? Why did you leave?
Ashley: Sometimes I have things to do, I barely know you guys, so sorry if I leave!
Taliesin: Why do you need to know so many things?
Travis: You're not afraid of inclement weather or anything, are you? It'd been real fair, that storm rolled in, and poof, you were fucking gone.
Sam: She left us before we were ambushed in Alfield, and when she left us this time, we almost died in this plot to overthrow the empire, or whatever it was with Crick soldiers. Maybe it's related!
Ashley: Pretty shit luck for you, then. That has nothing to do with me.
Marisha: I respect a woman who can handle her business on her own personal time.
Ashley: Thank you very much, Beau. Thank you. Sometimes I need to leave. Plus, I barely know you guys.
Taliesin: They're not used to you yet.
Liam: That is true. Do you think you will be able to travel with us for a little while, perhaps?
Marisha: Yeah, get to know us?
Taliesin: I could use a hand for a bit.
Ashley: We'll see.
Taliesin: I'd owe you one.
Travis: Did you handle what you needed to handle?
Ashley: I think I did. I think I'm looking for answers for something, and I don't know if I received any more, but I'm still looking.
Sam: If you told us what it was, we could help you.
Ashley: I don't know if you can.
Liam: No pressure, at all, but it is nice to have some muscle around.
Sam: Lots of pressure! Maximum amount of pressure!
Ashley: Thank you, Nott. I'll stick around and offer my strength as much as I can.
Liam: She is just joshing you.
Sam: I am not!
Taliesin: She is definitely not joshing.
Travis: I make sure Nott's drink is full all the time. (laughter)
Travis: Can I look around this unsavory place? There are no faces that I recognize, right?
Matt: Glancing around, no. Other than Kara, who you had spoken with previously, nobody else catches your attention.
Marisha: What is she doing right now? She still watching us?
Matt: No, she's not watching you. She's receded into the top balcony into a chamber behind.
Sam: It seemed like the Gentleman-- who's very impressive, by the way-- knows a lot about stuff, including the fact that we were involved in a plot to frame the Sutan fellow.
Marisha: He knows Kara pretty well.
Sam: Do you think he would know if the Xhorhas invasion at the same time as our little plan was a bigger conspiracy? Were we set up?
Taliesin: Why would we be set up?
Sam: I don't know, but it seems coinky-dinky that we were there on a night when towers were exploding.
Marisha: I think we should talk to Kara. I've been playing hard to get, waiting to see if she mingles around to us.
Sam: You're so coy.
Travis: I think Kara's the way to go. We start asking him questions about something that big, maybe he won't like us poking our nose around.
Taliesin: We'll check, but shit happens, and you've got to be doing something when shit happens. We just happened to be doing something.
Travis: When shit happened.
Taliesin: It's hardly a coincidence.
Ashley: You guys are going to Xhorhas?
Travis: No. There was a bit of a beatdown the other night in the Tri-Spire. One of the towers was attacked.
Marisha: Oh yeah. When did you get in town?
Ashley: I saw that.
Travis: You were here?
Marisha: You were here?
Ashley: I was here. I've been here the whole time.
Marisha: What were you up to?
Ashley: I was trying to figure some shit out.
Sam: What was it?!
Taliesin: What we commonly referred to in the circus as "Yasha-ing."
Travis: Oh, Yasha-ing.
Ashley: I like to get away from things sometimes.
Liam: We have been getting our hands dirty, a little bit. Are you sure you want to get your hands dirty with us?
Ashley: That's all I'd like to do.
Liam: That's direct.
Taliesin: It's a sight to behold.
Travis: You want to go talk to Kara before we get out of here?
Ashley: Wait, what was the Xhorhas bit?
Sam: Oh, Xhorhas assassins tried to steal a box of some sort that was a weapon of mass destruction or a portal to another dimension or some sort of fount of energy that powers their race, we have no idea, but they stole it, we encountered them in the sewers, we did not kill the Xhorhas assassin, but he was killed shortly thereafter and we stole his magical dodecahedron.
Taliesin: You said that in this bar.
Liam: (as Jester) Technically we stole it from the crownsguard because he took it away, so we stole it later.
Taliesin: Let's not say anything in here that we wouldn't want to be circulated.
Sam: All you need to know is the people from Xhorhas are dead now. Do you know people from Xhorhas?
Ashley: I'm from Xhorhas.
Marisha: What?!
Sam: Who are you?
Taliesin: Wait, is that a beer?
Sam: Yes.
Ashley: Probably not where they were from.
Sam: You're a Cr-- Can I say Crick? Is that okay? Do I have to be a Crick to say it?
Taliesin: She's not a Crick.
Liam: Depends on who you're talking to.
Ashley: I don't think I'm where they're from. I'm more southern parts of Xhorhas.
Sam: You're from that part of the world?
Ashley: No, I don't know exactly where they were from. I don't know who they are, I don't know anything about them.
Travis: They came in trying to steal this Beacon, this glowing beacon, which we still have, but they were mighty upset about it.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: How long have you been in the Empire?
Ashley: Make sure that's correct, actually.
Matt: That is correct.
Sam: You don't know if you were born there or grew up there?
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: How long have you been here in the Empire?
Ashley: For about-- I don't know, when did I meet you?
Taliesin: God, was it a year and a half ago?
Ashley: Year and a half.
Taliesin: Give or take. How many people are listening in on this clearly right now?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: I'm doing a scan, see if there's any wandering eyes.
Taliesin: 14. Actually, no, 17, sorry.
Matt: 17. As is the nature of a seedy underbelly, there are a lot of individuals who are very interested in the newcomers that waltzed in, made a deal with their boss, and have sat and had a drink and are talking all sorts of business. There are a number of folks that are slowly creeping in.
Taliesin: Can we please stop talking in here?
Liam: What do you mean, people are listening to heavy metal GWAR babe, purple guy, and little green girl in a doll mask?
Taliesin: They are serving us free drinks, of course they're listening to everything we say. Let's retire for the evening.
Sam: Don't we need to talk to Kara?
Taliesin: We can come back and do this tomorrow.
Sam: No! She's right here today!
Taliesin: You talk to Kara, then, but no more whatever this is.
Travis: Why, Lucien? You afraid the Myriad will hear? What's his reaction?
Marisha: He definitely had a thing!
Taliesin: I am genuinely a little drunk, and didn't remember who the Myriad were.
Travis: Do I believe him?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Travis: Shit. 11.
Taliesin: What am I doing, deception? Ten. So I have to tell the truth? I have no idea, I'd literally forgotten because I'm a little drunk and I'm really preoccupied right now.
Matt: You don't have to roll deception if you're not lying.
Taliesin: I know, I was just doing it to fuck with them.
Liam: I'm going to have Frumpkin jump into Nott's lap and do the (gnawing) on her fingers to keep her occupied.
Sam: Ah! I'll eat you!
Taliesin: (angry meowing)
Marisha: We go talk to Kara.
Sam: Do you know Lucien, too?
Matt: You go through a door, and there is a switchback stairway that leads to the upper balcony area, and as you head up there, it looks like there's a weapon rack which has a bunch of weapons set up. Kara's currently sitting on the edge of a bench and is sharpening the blades, small daggers and stuff, and looks back. "Oh! Hello." Sets it aside. "Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to deceive anyone, but that's my business."
Marisha: So you were deceiving us.
Matt: "I was keeping some things close to my chest, like I'm sure you do."
Travis: What's that saying? Be careful of the toes you step on, they might belong to the ass you got to kiss later?
Marisha: That's a good one. Have to remember that one.
Matt: "Look, I deceived no one, outside of what you needed to know. We got our business done. I've done nothing wrong."
Marisha: How much of this was orchestrated from the beginning? Were we a distraction for the bigger picture?
Matt: "What do you mean?"
Travis: The attack on the tower.
Matt: "Oh, the Crick attack on the tower? No, had nothing to do with us. We're not going to work with those savage beasts."
Marisha: Insight check.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: I was looking at you.
Marisha: 21. (cheering)
Marisha: Bring it to me!
Travis: Still need a whisper corner.
Liam: (singing) Ashley, Ashley's back, Ashley's back in the game, she's back in the game and she's never going back and Blindspot is no more. Well, maybe it is, we're just not sure, we're waiting to find out.
Ashley: (singing) We're waiting to find out, but I'll be here for a minute now. Back to the game.
Matt: "That wasn't planned by anyone. If anything, it might have saved our asses, because it made what you did small potatoes by comparison. I'm thankful it happened, but look, those things continue to attack us from the eastern border, and from what little information's coming through, it's getting worse with each passing week, so the last thing I want to do is let any more of them into our backyard."
Marisha: All right. You won't want to frame them in any type of larger scheme, considering it seems like you're quite irritated with them?
Matt: "Look, I know my limits. I'm not some mastermind. I want to make some coin, I want to work with one of my skill sets, make the boss happy. I stay mainly within the city. I don't want to deal with any bigger stuff than that. I'm just a girl."
Travis: I'm going to ask you a question you're probably not going to give me the truth to. Is your relationship with the Gentleman one of a debt or one of convenience?
Matt: "It's one of convenience. Keeping it short for you, it sure beats pickpocketing in the streets and being beaten when I'm caught."
Travis: I hear that.
Marisha: Interesting. How long have you been working for the Gentleman?
Matt: "About eight years."
Marisha: That's a long time.
Matt: "I worked my way up."
Marisha: Does he feel the same about the Xhorhasian as you do?
Matt: "As far as I know, yeah. It's not good for business."
Marisha: You know, it's not as difficult to rally a society of people against another. It's not too hard to start a war if you really want to.
Matt: "That's true, but-- I don't know his whole plan, per se, but business works well when things are predictable. Right? And when there's war involved, things get real unpredictable. Emotions are high. The amount of armed guard and military gets high. We're forced to skulk in the shadows until it blows over. Last thing we want is for all this to get any crazier then."
Travis: I only have one other thing. I was taken by Dolan's passionate message.
Matt: "Dolan's a good man. He's not caught up in all this. Don't try and mix us up in that, right. He doesn't deserve it."
Travis: All right. Is some of the business that we can expect going to go against the fair people of this city?
Matt: "Generally, no. Most of the folks that work with the Gentleman and that we work for are well-paying because they're well-off. Some of them aren't the most moral, either. We don't do anything that hurts the folk that don't deserve it. At least from what I know. We don't kill, we don't murder. We just move and sell and deal in various goods that aren't perfectly legal."
Marisha: Did Ulog and Dolan know about your involvement with the Gentleman?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: All right, here's my question. Ulog was in against the High-Richter. That was his motivation. Dolan wanted to get after Lord Sutan for running him out of his practice.
Matt: "Right."
Marisha: What did you get out of all this?
Matt: "Well, if I have a friend that makes it high in the political chain of the city-- Dolan-- and I have the ear of the Gentleman, that's a mighty powerful ally to the underworld without that ally knowing."
Travis: Indeed. That's a connection worth the trouble.
Marisha: You're only in it to be a middleman? No goals or aspirations yourself?
Matt: "Well, there's good money in being the middleman, if this works out. To be honest, it sure beats having to shuffle in the shadows. I work better in public anyway. It's what I do for the Gentleman now."
Marisha: Yeah. You got a nice face. It's good for presentory purposes.
Travis: "You got a nice face"?
Marisha: She does! Look! She's got a good face!
Travis: I'm glad you found a place here. It was good to see you again.
Matt: "You too. Sorry--"
Marisha: That was a compliment. Did it not?
Travis: If I can't tell, you didn't--
Marisha: That was a compliment. All right. Guess we'll see you around.
Matt: "Stay safe. You know where to find me, or at least ask about me, now. Looks like we're in bed one way or the other."
Marisha: I mean--
Travis: Leave that one alone.
Marisha: All right. Let's go!
Travis: We head downstairs.
Matt: All right. You join up with the rest of the crew. You guys have all gathered again. What would you like to do?
Taliesin: Situationally, it could be a thing--
Sam: I think they're talking about the sword.
Taliesin: Yeah, we've been talking about the sword.
Travis: Oh yeah, the one that we had for--
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Jester has it, doesn't she?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Jester, by the way, you seriously-- Your farts have been disgusting tonight. I've been sitting next to you all night , and it's just foul. Foul.
Travis: Yeah. Like sprinkles and hard candies. Just (dry puffing).
Matt: "That's not me. That is just a gift from the Traveler."
Travis: (farting) Her skirt's like, (farting).
Matt: This is why you don't miss a game, Laura.
Ashley: But she's sick.
Travis: (singing) I'm on the couch tonight! (laughter)
Liam: Jester, why are you smearing feces all over your face?
Travis: It's wafting over.
Matt: Anyway.
Travis: Lucien--
Sam: We can pass out the sword later, but do you think it's something you could use?
Matt: It a dark, graphite-colored blade that's hooked in places and this gradual sharp. It's a longsword, so it's not the beefy thing you're used to.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: What does she wield usually?
Travis: Greatsword.
Ashley: Moontouched.
Matt: It is a hefty blade. What you're used to, this one's a little smaller. It's still helpful, but it's your call.
Ashley: I really saved up for the sword that I have. I thank you guys for thinking of me, but--
Sam: Could you have it as a backup weapon or something?
Liam: Yeah, you could shoulder that motherfucker.
Sam: Could you dual wield?
Matt: I think you could use it with your Hexblade. You can use it two-handed, do a d10, but that's up to you. It's not as hefty or as sentimental as the one you have.
Ashley: I'll hold on to it.
Taliesin: We'll hold on. We'll see if you want to play around with it, Fjord.
Liam: Nott, maybe you could use it. You know, for laughs.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: It's taller than Nott.
Ashley: It's taller than Nott?
Taliesin: Yeah. Many things are taller than Nott.
Sam: I could use it as a makeshift shelter.
Liam: You could do the pole vault.
Taliesin: Interesting stuff there.
Ashley: What do you think, Fjord?
Travis: Yeah, I think it's got some potential. Do you mind if I hold on to it for a bit?
Ashley: No, by all means. I think I'm a bit attached to my sword.
Sam: Can I just clock the tabaxi and see where that satchel with our blood in it is? Did she happen to put it down while she was over?
Matt: No, it is over her shoulder and by her side.
Liam: That's a shame
Ashley: That's a shame, because I wanted to get it back.
Travis: Nott, why don't you ask that big ogre by the door what her name is?
Sam: Why? Why would I do that?
Travis: You have such a way with people.
Sam: I do not.
Travis: Yeah, you knock down the barriers, you get right in. Icebreaker.
Sam: People hate me.
Travis: No, that's not true at all.
Liam: I will go with you, if you want. If you want us to ask this--
Sam: There's no part of this that I want! But if you'd like to go over there, I'll be your second.
Liam: To the ogre?
Sam: Yeah. I'd be comfortable talking to that little crazy gnome.
Travis: Always good to make friends with the doorman. You got to know this.
Taliesin: That is a fair point.
Sam: All right, we can go talk to the ogre.
Travis: Tell him that joke you know.
Sam: All right, sure.
Liam: Let's go.
Sam: Can we go by the bar, though?
Liam: This is a people-building exercise.
Matt: To lay it out, the whole room is shaped like an L. Here's the far end, and this is the chamber. You guys entered from this side, around the corner the ogre's right there. The bar's up here, and this is where the Gentleman was.
Sam: Going to swing by the bar, I need a refill. Going to give the bartender my flask, and say: Could you fill this entire thing up?
Matt: "Yeah, no problem. Boss said it's fine."
Liam: He's good, pouring a flask like that.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: He has practice. It's a little spilled. It's a little messy.
Sam: I don't tip. (laughter)
Travis: Character choice!
Liam: Important note  Laura Bailey has texted in that she hates us all.
Sam: We'll go over to the ogre, I guess?
Liam: Sure. This is easy. We're all going to die.
Matt: You approach the ogre?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: The ogre, who's standing roughly ten, 11 feet tall.
Liam: This is a guy, it is a male ogre?
Matt: It is a male ogre, wearing patchwork hides and fur over one shoulder, large belly, rippling muscle arms, the maul held in one hand, resting against the chest. Deep, angry jaw that has jowls that swing as it turns its head to look towards you. Both the eyes are dark and beady, with a brown iris you can barely see under the folded brow. As you approach, it (snorts).
Liam: I also grab Jester by the wrist and drag her along, because she makes everyone smile, so I bring her with. Yeah, hello. I am sorry to bother you, but I think that we are loosely connected through work relations now. This is my friend Nott, this is Jester. My name is Caleb Widogast, and we are working for the Gentleman, much like you are. We are going to be here--
Sam: What do you call a deer with no eyes? No eye deer! (laughter)
Travis: Come on.
Marisha: No, that's great.
Matt: (confused grunt)
Travis: Oh no.
Sam: It didn't work.
Matt: Literally rolled an intelligence check to see if he got it. And did not.
Liam: You know, we don't want to take up too much of your time, I was just hoping to learn two things. One, what is your name?
Matt: "Kutha."
Liam: I wipe the warm breath off of my face.
Travis: Kutha.
Liam: And my second question is  do you like working for the Gentleman?
Matt: "Yeah."
Taliesin: I've been informed by Jester that she is now to use the Wand of Smiles. (cheering)
Travis: What is it? (laughter)
Taliesin: From the darkness, she strikes!
Sam: It looks so painful!
Matt: "What's happening?" (grunting) Clawing at the jaw, trying to pull it down.
Liam: I will take that as a yes. I am glad we are doing business with this gentleman.
Sam: Good to meet you.
Matt: (groaning) "You do this?!"
Sam: No, it wasn't me! I didn't do anything! Let's go!
Travis: We should go.
Matt: This terrible grinning ogre, who seems confused with the facial muscles not functioning.
Travis: We go up the stairs and out.
Marisha: You guys made friends. Good job.
Travis: Kuthag? Or Kuth--
Matt: Kutha. K-U-T-H-A.
Liam: Kutha.
Matt: Kutha. You guys make your way back up the spiral staircase, out through the trapdoor in the back storage room of the Evening Nip, exiting past the bar where Clive Binz sits there waiting with his half burn-scarred dwarven face, who gives you a nod as you exit back into the city-- now, I believe, in the late-afternoon, near dusk-- the sky grows darker as you proceed onto the next leg of your adventure. And that's where we're going to take a break. (cheering)
Matt: We'll be back here in a few moments, guys. Please stick around; we have a great little video at 826 that I think you want to check out to let you know about the-- It's awesome, a bunch of us went down there and I hope helped--
Liam: We had the loveliest time, it was a great day; please check it out.
Matt: We get to go back again on Saturday to finish up our campaign for those kids, it's going to be exciting. We have our Wyrmwood giveaway, of course, for you folks out there. Those of you who want to come over into Twitch chat to enter, the code for tonight is "gentleman"-- "A", singular, "gentleman"! Gentleman, not men. You can only enter it once in the chat, any more than that and you'll be disqualified. This is good for anyone in the United States, Canada, excluding Quebec, unfortunately, due to crazy rules and laws. But here you have this fancy zebrawood deck box, which is nice material that we're all going to be signing and sending out, so we'll come back from the break with the winner. Until then, hang tight, enjoy the break, and we'll see you here in a few minutes.
Marisha: Hello, Critters! We are back at the Time Travel Mart in Echo Park, California, which is one of the homes of our beloved 826LA, and we're going to tell you about this amazing organization and maybe play some Dungeons & Dragons? Come on, I'll show you around. [funky music]
Marisha: You all probably remember this guy, Joel, the executive director from 826LA. Thank you so much for having us and talking to us once again. We've been doing this a few years now.
Joel: I think this is our third or fourth time together and I really appreciate the incredible support you've given us over the years, so thank you.
Marisha: Yeah, aren't the Critters such an amazing group? We've heard rumors of people coming and stopping by and volunteering, yeah?
Joel: Yeah, they're an incredibly generous group, and we've had volunteer orientations a few times a month, and there's always a good ten folks who show up, and when we ask them, "How did you hear about us?" they talk about your show, and it's been a huge help to us.
Marisha: Oh my goodness, that warms my heart so much. I love it. Okay, so give us a little bit of a rundown on what 826 is, and what you guys do for all the amazing kids that come through here.
Joel: We're a writing and tutoring organization. We really want to get kids excited about writing. We want to honor their creativity and give them a space where they can have fun and engage with volunteers who can listen and help guide them in their storytelling and in their writing. We do this after school tutoring, we do night time tutoring and we do workshops. We also do a field trip program, and then we also go into schools all across Los Angeles to provide this free, one-on-one service to kids.
Marisha: You guys have 826 chapters all over the country, correct?
Joel: That's right, we're part of 826 National, which is our umbrella organization out of San Francisco. We have chapters in San Francisco, we have one in New York, in Chicago, D.C., Michigan, Detroit. We're actually opening one in New Orleans very soon.
Marisha: (gasps) Hey, NOLA!
Joel: NOLA. So we're excited. We're all very connected and we share resources and support each other. We're all independent non-profits in our cities, but we collaborate and support each other.
Marisha: I love it so much. You guys have the Time Travel Mart, which is amazing, if you're ever in Los Angeles, you have to come visit it. You have different themes for each of those across the nation, yeah?
Joel: Yeah, so we have actually two Time Travel Marts here in Los Angeles. We've got the one here that we're in Echo Park, and we have one in Mar Vista, which is from the 1890s-- this one's the 1980s Time Travel Mart. San Francisco has a pirate store, New York has a superhero supply store, they sell robot supplies in Michigan.
Marisha: (laughs) That all feeds right back into the organization, yeah?
Joel: Yeah. All the profit from those sales help pay for the free services we provide to kids from six to 18 years of age.
Marisha: How did that even come about? How did you guys think to do that? It's so brilliant.
Joel: Dave Eggers, one of the founders of the organization, he was working with some volunteers at our founding site in San Francisco, and when they were taking apart the place, somebody said it looked like the inside of a pirate ship. So they decided to build a pirate store in the front. It was a joke at first, but people started leaving money at the counter. They didn't even have a person who would take money-- people kept donating and leaving money, so it became a concept, and all the cities now have storefronts.
Marisha: Now, if people want to get involved in 826LA or any of the 826's across the country, how is the best way to go about doing that?
Joel: Well, you can go to our website 826la.org, and there's a whole section for volunteers where you could learn about what it takes to volunteer and you can sign up for volunteer orientation. All of our chapters across the nation have their own sites, so folks can visit and get involved.
Marisha: Awesome. You don't necessarily have to tutor if that's not your jam. You can do many things, right?
Joel: Yeah, we don't turn any volunteers away. We try to figure out ways to get all volunteers involved. We need help with design, we need help with copy editing, we have a ton of projects that we could always use help on.
Marisha: Amazing. All skill sets are appreciated.
Joel: Absolutely.
Marisha: Joel, thank you, as always, for taking the time.
Joel: Thank you.
Marisha: All right, we'll see you soon.
Joel: See you soon.
Marisha: All right, here's the deal  we are dedicating the next four weeks to our favorite charity, 826LA. Now, for every 5000 dollars we raise, a new incentive will be unlocked for everyone.
Taliesin: For a complete list of those incentives, head on over to geekandsundry.com.
Liam: Additionally, D&D Beyond has offered to donate $100 for every natural one rolled by the Mighty Nein up until June-- including every natural one rolled to date, making a positive out of our misery.
Travis: And we have an amazing community member and Critter who has graciously offered to match all donations up to $40,000. That means each dollar that you donate will be doubled.
Matt: A huge thank you, of course, to our friends at D&D Beyond, Geek and Sundry, and Wyrmwood for being so wonderful to support 826LA and bring joy to all of these kids. And, of course, we have to thank you, the Critters, whose continuous care and generosity even makes things like this possible. So I guess it's time, guys.
All: Let's do this! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. Great timing.
Travis: They're getting worse.
Matt: So, we have our winner for the evening for the Wyrmwood giveaway. It is LoupRouge. LoupRouge, congratulations. Danoba will get your information and we'll get that sent out to you ASAP. So congrats! All right, bringing us back into the game, you guys have all reassembled with a moment of your thoughts on the outside of the Evening Nip, just as the sun has set. The oranges and purples of the sky have taken over with the little bits that you can see beyond the cloud cover that still seems to permeate the atmosphere above you. With the recent storm mostly passed, it seems at least the gray skies are clinging as hard as they can. What do you wish to do?
Liam: Sun's on its way down, you said?
Matt: The sun has recently set.
Liam: It has set, okay.
Travis: I feel like I should divvy up that gold that I didn't hand out earlier.
Taliesin: That is a very fine idea.
Travis: Yeah, I'll have to remember--
Marisha: We want to go back to the Leaky Tap?
Travis: I'll have to remember to do that some other day.
Taliesin: I think that also sounds like a very fine idea.
Marisha: You know, that's safe. We should also probably check in on the dodeca-doohickey as well.
Taliesin: That's a fair point.
Travis: Oh, right. Does Jester have that?
Matt: Jester has it, yeah, inside the backpack.
Marisha: Oh, right, she has it. Never mind.
Travis: I guess we should let Horris know that he'll get an escort out of town, right?
Marisha: Yeah. He was at the Leaky Tap, right? We left him there?
Matt: You left him at the Leaky Tap, yeah.
Marisha: Okay, yeah. Let's do that.
Travis: Let's do it.
Matt: So you guys head back to the Leaky Tap. You head back to your chambers, and within the one room, Horris has been very careful. As soon as you open the door, Horris immediately grabs the nearby chair and like gets ready. "Oh. You've returned."
Marisha: Going for the chair. I'm into it.
Travis: Yeah, right?
Matt: "Sorry, just, I'm a little jumpy. How are things going? How's the search been?"
Travis: It went well. I think we found suitable passage for you out of this city. Needless to say, without involving you too much, we're going to have someone take you out a secret entrance and make sure you're safe on your way out.
Marisha: I hope you're okay with being blindfolded.
Matt: "I trust you. Yeah."
Marisha: Sorry. It was part of the deal.
Travis: Yeah, I guess it was.
Matt: "Okay. No, that's fine. (sighs) Thank you. I can't even begin to express my thanks."
Travis: I didn't write down how much fucking gold, didn't I? 620.
Sam: Is Dolan gone? Already?
Marisha: Dolan is staying. Horris is getting out of Dodge.
Sam: Got it.
Marisha: Horris, have you heard anything while we've been gone, or have you been staying in here?
Matt: "I've been staying in here. I've been looking out the windows. There's been more guard activity in the streets. It looks like they're making their way inward into the city and beginning to inquire, at least from what I've seen. That's it. Other than that, I've just been bored and reading this book." (chuckles)
Taliesin: Page-turner.
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Any favorite parts?
Matt: "Eh, no."
Travis: Hate those. Pictures good?
Matt: "There aren't any pictures."
Travis: What the fuck are you reading it for, then?
Matt: (clears throat) "Anyway."
Marisha: (whispers) Your Grog is showing.
Travis: Yeah, sorry. Listen, everybody gets 104 gold.
Sam: 104 gold?!
Travis: Yep, and three silver.
Marisha: 104 gold.
Travis: No, not you.
Taliesin: Not yet.
Ashley: (laughs) Fuck off. I was there in spirit.
Sam: How many silver? What did you say?
Travis: Three silver.
Sam: Oh.
Liam: This is a good time to mention that in between last game and this--
Matt: Oh, right.
Liam: --cantrips not--
Matt: You can buy cantrip scrolls, but not--
Liam: Right, but Caleb would have known that.
Matt: Right.
Liam: After Liam had asked the DM.
Matt: Correct. You cannot transcribe cantrips.
Liam: So we're switching out that cantrip for Hold Person, if that was at the store.
Matt: Right. Yeah, it was. And paid the difference.
Liam: And Caleb is flat broke. Until right now!
Matt: There you go! Always skirting that edge. I lived that life for three years.
Travis: So did we all.
Marisha: So much ramen.
Taliesin: It was D&D ramen.
Matt: Paycheck, paycheck, paycheck. Paycheck! It's gone.
Travis: Cereal for dinner.
Matt: "Anyway."
Travis: Well. I assume they'll come for you, sometime in the night or in the morning. Hope you won't mind if we don't wait. We traded your expedited journey out of the city in order for us to go and take care of some bit of business for them.
Matt: "Very well. Just tell me what you need from me, or what I should do."
Travis: We didn't really ask, did we?
Marisha: I thought he was coming with us when we go to leave. That's what I thought.
Travis: Oh.
Marisha: Is that-- or am I mistaken?
Travis: No, I think that's probably right.
Matt: You didn't specify. But that seems like it might be a viable plan.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Either that or they'll kill him. (fake laugh)
Matt: "What?"
Marisha: Out of game, out of game! Don't, you're not-- DM's not here. DM's not here.
Matt: DM's always here.
Marisha: Well, we should probably blindfold him ourselves on the way there so he just don't even. We'll figure it out.
Liam: You blindfold him on the way to being blindfolded?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Oh?
Marisha: Because if we take him down into the Evening Nip with us then they're going to want to do the whole "Let me take your blood!" thing and "You weren't here," and "Who the fuck are you?" and all that shit.
Liam: Oh.
Travis: True.
Taliesin: How are we going to get him through the city with a blindfold on?
Marisha: So we don't want to do that. Sorry, also Marisha talking right now.
Travis: Maybe just before we go in. Anything we want to do before we go out on this errand?
Sam: Oh, I think there was one thing. Tell us everything about you! Are you fucking kidding me?! Leave! Leave, Horris! Leave!
Matt: "I'll step in one of the other rooms. Is there a key I could--"
Marisha: Here. I toss him mine and Jester's key. Just don't steal any of the pillowcases or go through any of our luggage.
Travis: Yeah, they're booby-trapped.
Matt: "Okay." He leaves the room. As soon as he leaves the room, Jester goes, "Okay, so tell us about you! Each!"
Ashley: I mean, this is not about me right now.
Sam: It could be!
Ashley: It doesn't need to be.
Sam: But you have secrets too! And you're a pair! You know, I distinctly remember a moment when we were the shady pair of this group. But now it looks like you guys are!
Taliesin: Everyone's a shady pair in this group. Somehow, even as individuals, we are all somehow shady pairs. It is just inevitable.
Sam: Now I'm hungry for pears.
Travis: Sounds like a retirement home. The Shady Pear. (laughter)
Travis: I mean, Lucien, Noganon, what the fuck?
Marisha: Lucien sounds very, "I'm trying to find myself," by the way. Just throwing that out there.
Sam: Angsty teen.
Marisha: Yeah, it's very angsty teen!
Travis: Is your real name Peter?
Marisha: I dated a few Luciens. Like, way too many Luciens.
Taliesin: Is this Marisha, or is this Beau?
Marisha: This is... Beau.
Taliesin: Never mind.
Marisha: Beau, but it's still not necessarily untrue.
Travis: Undetermined percentage is still--
Taliesin: We've all been Lucien.
Liam: Six of one, half a dozen of another. Order of the story.
Marisha: Lot of guys in bands. Yeah.
Taliesin: So. Well, I was born on the continent of-- I really--
Travis: No, don't stop. Just keep going.
Sam: Would you like a drink? Here. It's filled with many alcohols from different taverns.
Taliesin: I genuinely thought I would have some bullshit together by now, and I'm really sort of stuck.
Ashley: Listen, I've never pushed you to talk about anything. If you don't feel comfortable, you don't owe any of us anything.
Taliesin: It's dangerous, though. It's officially dangerous.
Travis: What, to tell us what you're about to tell us? For us, or for you?
Taliesin: At this point, what's the difference?
Travis: Well, one's us and one's you.
Marisha: We definitely left our vials in a shady cellar with a bunch of underground criminals.
Sam: I stole three empty vials from that place. I'm very excited about them. They're empty, but they're still really shiny.
Liam: (intones melody)
Travis: They're all the same note because they're all fucking empty. (intones melody) Oh no, that wouldn't work.
Sam: But seriously.
Taliesin: But seriously. I've been part of a shady group. I've been dealing with shady friends for as long as I can remember. If there's one thing I've learned about dealing with people that you can't trust, is that you have to trust them where you can and not trust them where you can't. I'm not saying that I know what I'm doing or anything, but I don't want anybody-- I want this to work. I need this to work. I've not done this in a while. All right.
Travis: I noticed that she kind of had the same influence over the blood that you have, but different.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's interesting, isn't it? This might even be easier if you just ask questions. I really don't know how to tell this story.
Liam: Why do you have so many names?
Taliesin: I woke up without any names, or any past, buried in the ground two years ago.
Travis: Buried in the ground?
Liam: You woke up buried in the ground?
Sam: Were you dead?
Taliesin: Obviously not.
Travis: In a box? In the dirt?
Taliesin: In the dirt.
Liam: And you are saying that you have no memory?
Taliesin: My first memory, my oldest memory is dirt in my face, underground.
Sam: Jester would like to cast Zone of Truth.
Liam: Keeping it real on the field line!
Sam: She says  (as Jester) I would like to play truth or dare, but without the dare.
Taliesin: How honest do I have to be?
Matt: We'll find out in a second.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: Well, you can say whatever you want, but whatever you say has to be true. That's how it works. You can also just say, "I don't feel like talking."
Matt: All right, all of you who are in the 15-foot radius it's being cast in, which would probably be... everybody. You're all staying close on this. Everybody please make charisma saving throw.
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: Saving throw?
Travis: Charisma saving throw?
Matt: Charisma saving throw.
Sam: I got a one.
Ashley: Hey, money!
Sam: Natural one! Ten dollars! To 826LA! (cheering)
Marisha: It's 100 dollars.
Sam: What!? That's even better!
Marisha: 100 dollars for every natural one.
Taliesin: I rolled a four.
Sam: Okay, you're in.
Ashley: 13.
Liam: 13.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: 22.
Matt: You are the only two that succeeded. Everyone else, you have to speak the truth.
Liam: But, DM, we know that, we feel it, according to the spell.
Matt: Yes. You all sense the energy come over you and for a second you're a little confused by it.
Taliesin: All right, that's not entirely true. It's a vague memory. I don't really remember it. It's kind of all jumbled. It's what I've been told, about some of it.
Marisha: So is that ritual she was rambling about?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: So before you woke up in the dirt, nothing?
Taliesin: There is no before. Whatever happened before is not me. It's not part of anything-- (sighs)
Sam: Like your life reset somehow? Or you just don't remember?
Taliesin: Some asshole got buried in the dirt. Fuck him. I am enjoying what I'm doing; I want nothing to do with that. Anything that came before, I was happy to just leave it be.
Liam: Yeah, but do you have any theories for what happened before?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Did you look the same, or did you come back--?
Taliesin: How would I know?
Sam: Everything before two years ago is nothing to you. Black.
Taliesin: That's somebody else.
Travis: Two years ago, did you have all those tattoos?
Taliesin: No, not exactly.
Sam: Any of them?
Taliesin: Some of them, yes.
Liam: How much time passed between waking up in a dirt box and the circus?
Taliesin: Days. I was a bit out of it. It's hard to remember. I wasn't speaking, really. Do you have memories from your childhood?
Liam: Yeah, many.
Travis: Sure.
Taliesin: It felt like that. It's all bright and more meaningful than it should be. There was just nothing. I was practically catatonic; I was barely speaking.
Marisha: Did you wake up to people, or alone?
Taliesin: Alone.
Liam: Are you a good guy?
Taliesin: I'd like to think so.
Travis: Why did she seem like she looked up to you so much?
Taliesin: I don't know. I don't know who that was. I've never heard the name Lucien before, or that other name. I've never heard of any of it.
Ashley: I didn't realize you didn't. You did a good job at pretending.
Taliesin: Yeah, well. I like pretending. Pretending's great. Who cares where anybody came from?
Marisha: How do you know she actually thinks it's you and not, you know, maybe she just mistook you for someone actually named Lucien?
Taliesin: That's possible except, of course, she had weird blood powers.
Marisha: So this happens to you.
Taliesin: Few months after I came to, I started noticing I could do things, knew things that I didn't necessarily know I knew.
Liam: Are you talking about your abilities?
Taliesin: Yeah. I can-- can I see that dagger?
Sam: I have three of them.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Sam: (dink)
Taliesin: Ice.
Matt: You watch as this large cluster of moisture all of a sudden solidifies around the outside of the blade, and the blade is now encrusted in jagged ice shards that just stick out, the steam coming off of it. Mist.
Sam: That's amazing. I would ask about how you discovered that, because that would not be something that I would ever just do, just to just see. But we'll leave that for another day.
Taliesin: Oh no, I can, we're here. This is happening. That's fine.
Sam: Question. Go back two beats. You said, "Who cares about what happened before?"
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Do you really not want to know your past? Answer truthfully.
Taliesin: I really don't. Whoever that was came to that end, and I want nothing to do with that. Whatever it was, it doesn't feel good when I-- the moment when something creeps through, I don't like it. I don't want anything to do with it. I was happy! I liked the circus! The circus was great!
Liam: (As Jester) "Oh! I have a question! Is there anyone in the group you find super attractive?" (As Liam) A text from Laura.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: I think she was asking Yasha.
Liam: Oh, ask Yasha, oh.
Ashley: Too late.
Liam: (As Jester) "What about you?"
Matt: As the nature of the spell, you know you are under the effect of it, and you can be dodgy if you need to, but it's up to you.
Liam: (As Jester) "You can tell me!"
Taliesin: That's a good Laura.
Ashley: I feel like-- it's a very good Laura. Yes, of course there are people here that I think are very attractive and charming, but that doesn't mean I will act on that.
Taliesin: You can be monosyllabic if you like with these people.
Travis: Molly--
Taliesin: Mm-hmm.
Travis: In the years that have gone by--
Sam: Yasha has a crush on me.
Travis: Has anyone called you any other names besides Molly, Lucien or--
Sam: Nonagon?
Travis: Yeah. Mahna Mahna.
Taliesin: Yeah, whatever that was. Not without me feeding it to them first. I mean, I've conned people. We've all conned people. I've used other names before.
Travis: No, but did they know you? Did they come up and give you a name?
Ashley: This was the first time that's happened.
Taliesin: A lot of this was in the hopes that maybe it would never happen, keep moving, keep quiet.
Travis: You don't know anything about the ritual she was talking about?
Taliesin: But I'll say this, and I'm going to put the knife down. Is there anything sharp around? Anything at all?
Travis: In this group?
Matt: Yeah, plenty of things that are sharp.
Taliesin: Something that's even ridiculous, like something not normal.
Matt: Yeah, I mean, there are jagged parts of the wooden frame of the bed.
Taliesin: Perfect! I'm just going to cut myself again on the wooden frame and grab it, and use radiance.
Matt: Okay. You watch as this bright, vibrant light billows out of it, glowing in the vicinity, similar that you've seen it encase the scimitar.
Taliesin: I'll admit, this is new.
Travis: Yeah, that's a hell of a thing.
Taliesin: You got to see the first time this happened.
Travis: Right.
Liam: Yasha, how much of this was under wraps? You knew any of this, in your time in the circus with--
Ashley: I knew that he woke up and that he did not know who he was, but this was the first time that this has happened. Where someone has come to us and recognized him from his past.
Liam: (As Jester) "Molly, what about have you ever pooped your pants?"
Travis: That's actually in the text thread chain.
Taliesin: Not that I'm-- Well, no. That's fair, sure. Well, it was worth it every time.
Sam: I'm sorry to belabor this, but what if you had a good life before this? What if you were famous or rich or had friends or family?
Ashley: I think were quite an amazing person--
Taliesin: Okay, here's the thing that you're not catching. That wasn't me. This is mine. I don't want anything from that other person anymore. That person is someone else. I don't want anything to do with it. I did not feel good coming out of that. It was-- I'm in for a penny, might as well. I'm told, although I don't entirely remember this part, that I only said the word empty over and over again for the first week.
Travis: Empty?
Marisha: Empty?
Sam: Empty?
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Liam: M.T. or empty?
Taliesin: Empty. I don't know. Barely remember.
Liam: Jester? I feel your touch on this conversation, is this all accurate?
Matt: "As far as I can tell, yes. He did indeed poop his pants."
Liam: And the rest?
Matt: "Oh that too, yes!"
Sam: Empty.
Taliesin: That sounds terrible. I don't want to remember anything. I don't want to anybody else's baggage in my head and I don't want anybody else's problems, thoughts, ideas. I like this person, right now is a good person. Is a fine person. Is a happy person.
Marisha: She kept referencing a book.
Travis: No idea.
Taliesin: Sounds shifty.
Marisha: What if we could find the book?
Taliesin: Nope. I don't want it.
Liam: Well, I will say, I am a little concerned about, you know, loose ends coming to bite you, and us in the butt. However--
Taliesin: We all have a few, I assume.
Liam: I believe in second starts and that's enough for me.
Taliesin: Can you imagine what it would feel like to not feel anything about anything that had happened to you so far?
Travis: No.
Liam: No.
Sam: No.
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Why am I not surprised?
Sam: What do you mean yes? You can imagine what it's like what it's like to not feel anything before this moment? Have you died before?
Marisha: No. Doesn't mean you have to find meaning in meaningless things.
Taliesin: It's very freeing. It's the best thing-- it's the thing that happened to me. It's not the best thing that happened to me, it's the thing that happened to me. I found peace in building a new person. The Moonweaver--
Marisha: You know just because you know about your past doesn't mean you have to be beholden to it.
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: If you--
Taliesin: What if it feels that I owe it something?
Marisha: You don't owe your past shit. If I don't feel anything about my past, but I still remember it and I still don't give a fuck about where I came from then, why should you care about shit that you don't even remember?
Travis: That's a layered question.
Taliesin: I spent two years before I met you all cajoling people, occasionally ripping them off, occasionally doing a good turn here or there. Never trust the truth. The truth is vicious. The truth thinks you owe it something. None of that. I like my bullshit. It's good. It's happy. It makes other people happy.
Sam: But it's not who you are.
Taliesin: It is exactly who I am.
Travis: Can I ask you, when you're praying over your swords at night, are you actually doing anything?
Taliesin: Well, do you know who the Moonweaver is?
Travis: No.
Taliesin: Excellent. The swords are cheap carnival glass. There's nothing special about them.
Liam: May I make a check to see if I have ever heard of the Moonweaver?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Sam: Is the Moonweaver not real?
Liam: 23.
Matt: Oh yeah, you've definitely heard of the Moonweaver.
Taliesin: Literally a decorated pair of swords to make them look special.
Matt: The Moonweaver is classically more of an elven deity. They are a god over night, of shadows, music, there's a lot of variations to what they go over, but they are definitely not one of the approved religions in the empire, and is not considered one of the betrayer gods classically. Is an inspiration for a lot of art in classic elven history, even some modern. The caretaker of evening trysts. Has a lot of unique history to the Moonweaver.
Travis: So it's you that's special, not your swords.
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: Molly, you seem like you have a pretty solidified identity for someone who has only had consciousness for two years.
Taliesin: Things came back quick, and the circus helped. They were good people. They did a lot of me and joy can fill an awful lot of a person's life.
Marisha: Things came back quick; do you feel like there's still remnants of whoever you once were that have informed who you are now?
Taliesin: Maybe. I feel tinges of things on occasion, nothing I like.
Marisha: Interesting.
Sam: If you always lie and bullshit, how are we ever going to believe you?
Taliesin: Because I always lie and bullshit.
Marisha: I can kind of agree with that. Cheers to bullshit.
Taliesin: I may be a liar but I'm never a betrayer. I'm honest in my work, and I believe in doing a good turn. I've never cheated you out of money. I've never robbed from you. I stayed with that circus for two years, I know how people treat each other. It's important. And all that stuff you told me before? I've got to admit, I didn't even listen to any bit of it. I was just trying to teach you a lesson. I don't care where you've been. I don't care what terrible things any of you have done. You're here now. This is how it works.
Liam: (as Jester) "Molly?"
Taliesin: Yes, darling.
Liam: (as Jester) "I have a question."
Taliesin: Of course.
Liam: (as Jester) "Can you really read fortunes?"
Taliesin: I use fortunes to tell people what I see in them. But sometimes, sometimes, I feel like maybe there's something that tickles the back of my head, I will admit.
Liam: (as Jester) "You have a feeling?"
Taliesin: Some days.
Marisha: Don't believe him, Jester.
Taliesin: Am I lying?
Sam: He has to be telling the truth.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Travis: He has to.
Ashley: I do feel like you actually, weirdly, have a gift for that.
Taliesin: I always try to be helpful when I turn cards for people.
Marisha: You ever think you could actually be doing damage, though? Setting people on false paths?
Taliesin: People are looking for a path, they're looking for a path. And I'll tell you-- and this is true-- I did my best every town I went to and every town I left, no matter how they treated me-- and a lot of them treated me with deep disrespect.
Marisha: Some people are vulnerable and looking for answers.
Taliesin: I left every town better than I found it.
Sam: Which tattoos are the old ones? I mean, I don't want to see your naked body or anything. But do you have some?
Taliesin: Is it-- yeah, no. So I show off the peacock a little bit. One of the peacock feathers on the neck--
Liam: What about your tattoos, though?
Taliesin: Thank you, Liam. One of the eyes on one of the peacock feathers is a bright crimson red, which any of you if you'd ever made a fucking insight check would know. God, I was waiting for you to fuck with me. It's also the same place that he bleeds every time that he uses any of his powers. There's also a red eye on the snake on the palm, and there's a red eye on the snake on the opposite side of the hand.
Sam: What does that mean? What does it mean? Caleb, what does it mean?
Liam: That's a lot of ink, man.
Sam: Red eyes or something?
Taliesin: There are various--
Liam: Hey, does any of that symbology mean anything to me?
Matt: Not at the moment. How much do you show?
Taliesin: I'm just showing the snake, the two snake eyes. I'm showing the peacock eye. And then I'm going to show the eye in the floral arrangement.
Marisha: Come on, Patterson, come on. Help us out here right now. This is your day job.
Ashley: Well, I'll have to look at my tattoo database. (laughter)
Sam: Get out the black light.
Taliesin: I tried to cover them, but they wouldn't take ink. So I just did my best.
Sam: They're not tattoos?
Taliesin: No. I don't know what they are.
Sam: They're just markings?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: But you don't remember getting them? They just appeared?
Sam: They were just there.
Liam: (as Jester) "(clears throat) Caleb, I have a question."
Travis: You don't have to do every one of these that's she's going to fucking write.
Liam: (as Jester) "Do you shave your butt?" (as Caleb) I can truthfully say--
Taliesin: I don't.
Liam: No, that was for me.
Taliesin: But now that you bring it up, because I'd never occurred to it, I might start.
Travis: That was to Caleb.
Taliesin: Oh, that was for Caleb. Never mind, sorry.
Sam: No, that's very interesting. Good to know.
Liam: Now you know that neither Molly nor I shave our butt.
Taliesin: Who butt shaves?
Liam: And also there's not a lot of hair there anyway, so.
Matt: And also, there's only a couple minutes more left on the spell.
Taliesin: Anything else before we're done here?
Marisha: Did you ever know anyone who did used to try and set people on wrong paths with their fortune telling?
Taliesin: No. We tried-- That's dangerous work and it'll usually backfire. No interest in that. It's mostly just trying to help people get their shit together. Did someone send you on the wrong path?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: That's fair. I don't care, to be fair.
Marisha: Still in the Zone of Truth now.
Travis: Is there anything about you that you don't want us to know?
Taliesin: Yes. Everything. I like the safety of it, and if I had had my way, this would've been a conversation for a later date. But I need to protect you and myself from whatever that is, so you need to know that that is a wild card.
Travis: I appreciate that.
Marisha: Well this was fun.
Sam: I feel like we should do this every night. But I will say this: Lucien?
Taliesin: It's a terrible name.
Sam: It's terrible.
Taliesin: I don't ever want to know who that person is.
Sam: It's like a kid with a soft mustache that's not like a real-- you know, like a--
Taliesin: Let me make this abundantly clear. My name is Molly. That person is dead and not me. It's just a person who had this body. They abandoned it, it's mine now.
Sam: I think that you need to know where you've been to know where you're going and I respect your feelings--
Taliesin: And I feel that you're fretfully ignorant and filled with platitudes. But I still like you regardless.
Sam: I feel like when you're ready to know your past, I would support that and I would help you find it.
Taliesin: Maybe he killed goblins. Maybe he was a goblin hunter. Maybe he ate them. Raw.
Liam: Perhaps we have learned all we need to learn from this conversation. Maybe it is time to turn in. We have some things to do tomorrow. I am satisfied, Mollymauk Tealeaf. For now.
Taliesin: This was not how I expected this to go. Thank you.
Marisha: For what it's worth, I like you a little better now.
Sam: Me too.
Marisha: You don't have to reciprocate it.
Taliesin: I'm waiting for the spell to dissipate before I say anything.
Matt: About now the spell has dissipated.
Taliesin: I both like you more and less at the same time.
Marisha: I get that a lot.
Sam: Is the spell gone?
Matt: The spell's gone.
Sam: Goddamn it! Yasha, tell us everything! Fuck!
Matt: You can still press her.
Taliesin: Thank you, dear. (sighs)
Travis: Should we turn in before we head out tomorrow?
Marisha: Oh yeah, Fjord and I found out that we're probably going to be facing some undead wispy things that might electrocute us.
Sam: I think we all-- did we all find out? No?
Travis: Yeah, we came out and told you that.
Taliesin: Even that "undead wispy things," is that triggering anything in the brain?
Matt: You know, go ahead and make a religion check. With advantage.
Liam: The Gentleman described the research facility to everybody right? Before they split off?
Matt: He what?
Liam: The Gentleman.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Described the research facility, the job to everybody.
Matt: To everybody who was present at the table and remained within the vicinity at the moment.
Liam: Right. So we all heard that?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Yeah, you're familiar with these entities. They're generally undead orbs that--
Taliesin: Undead orbs.
Matt: That haunt swamps, haunt areas where they seek life force to siphon it and devour it. They're will-o'-wisps.
Taliesin: They're basically will-o'-wisps. You usually find them in swamps or things like that.
Marisha: Okay. Do you know how to fight them?
Taliesin: Yes. Am I smoldering?
Marisha: You are. (chuckles)
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Yes. It's so good. It's a good movie.
Taliesin: I know. Anyway. All right.
Travis: We'll turn in.
Matt: All right, you guys all turn in?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right. An evening's rest takes you as you all take a while, ruminating on the events of the day, the information acquired and the path before you. You eventually find yourselves to sleep so you can take your long rests for the night. Are you doing anything with the sword?
Travis: With the sword?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: The one-- you mean the--
Matt: The one that you took from Yasha.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: Are you--
Travis: Not yet.
Matt: Not yet? Okay. Anybody else? Anything? All right then. As the morning comes to, you all wake up relatively early because you went to bed relatively early. It's shortly after sunrise. You find yourself conscious. Some of the first to really hit the downstairs tavern for breakfast. Food is served, drinks are had and the morning and day is yours. What do you wish to do?
Travis: How long does it take to attune to something? An hour? Shit, maybe I should have--
Marisha: A short rest.
Matt: You can do it if you want.
Marisha: Yeah, you could do it if you want.
Travis: Yeah, I want to try to attune to the Wastehunter Blade.
Matt: Okay. So you focus on it and as you lie there, concentrating on it, you extend the essence of whatever pact you've made with this entity into this weapon. As you finally finish the period of time, you hold the blade in front of you and it vanishes into the pocket.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: As you force it to apparate once more in your grasp and the blade returns, it has the same hooked shape, but now this blade is encrusted with barnacles along the base of it. Edges of it have curved around and water continues to drip off this. It seems to have transferred whatever the essence of this pact blade is to this one. At this moment you realize whatever weapon you seem to bond with in this way will carry that same aquatic essence based on the communion that you've acquired.
Taliesin: Did you do this alone or was I in the room when this happened? I would have loved to have watched this.
Travis: Yeah, you were there.
Taliesin: I walk up, get a little uncomfortably close, put my hand on your chest. The power was in you, all along. See you at breakfast!
Liam: Oh no. I'm going to scuttle off and go over to Pumat's. I have just a short little shopping.
Travis: Oh, I need to go as well.
Liam: Oh, you do? Okay. So I'm having bacon down below, so I will wait until I see you.
Sam: Anyone need to go to Pumat's?
Travis: Oh, you know who should come? Yasha.
Sam: She's never met Pumats Sols.
Ashley: Pumats?
Travis: Yeah. The Invulnerable Vagrant.
Sam: It's a quartet. It's a doo-wop group.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Sam: They all sing bass.
Liam: You need to let your soul glow.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Hey, would you all mind looking in to see if you find any throwing stars or any throwing darts? Here, I'll give you some-- here.
Liam: Shuriken?
Marisha: Yeah. See, I need something-- I give him a little bit of gold to see if he--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: How much is a little bit?
Marisha: Here. Here's ten gold.
Liam: Hey!
Marisha: Bring me back the change.
Liam: For throwing stars from Pumat. Okay. I will definitely ask him if he has "throwing stars."
Marisha: If he does not have throwing stars ask for darts or the equivalent. Do not fuck me here, Caleb. Do not fuck me.
Liam: Not interested, but I will ask about the items you are looking for.
Sam: Seems pretty aggressive for a favor.
Matt: Classic Beauregard.
Travis: You'll like this. Pumat Sol is-- how would you describe? Unique?
Liam: Well, not one-of-a-kind.
Travis: Mm-hmm. (laughter)
Travis: Maybe we should just--
Taliesin: Did you just tell a joke?
Liam: No.
Taliesin: (sighs) It's a shame. It was a very good one.
Sam: Germans don't tell jokes. (laughter)
Matt: Zemnians.
Sam: Zemnians experience only pain. (laughter)
Travis: Anybody else coming to the Invulnerable Vagrant besides the three of us? Yep, four.
Ashley: What's it called?
Travis: The Invulnerable Vagrant.
Sam: Is everybody going to go?
Marisha: I'll stay here and watch Horris. Me and Jester, right.
Matt: Jester will stay as well. There you go.
Marisha: I'm going to go wake him up. He's been sleeping in. Asshole.
Sam: (as Jester) "I have the diarrhea." (laughter)
Marisha: Come on Jester, come on.
Liam: Oh man.
Travis: (as Jester) "Don't make me laugh."
Matt: Oh, boy.
Liam: Laura is texting with a full case of FOMO right now. Ooh.
Taliesin: She's slowly sharpening a blade at home, just--
Liam: We miss you, Laura. Next week.
Travis: When I come home all the lights will be off with just a candle and a chair.
Liam: When you get home, just the blinds are open.
Matt: All righty. So for those of you who are making your way towards the Pentamarket, you eventually find the outskirts of the Invulnerable Vagrant. You enter the interior and there are two other individuals that are doing business with two of the Pumats.
Travis: Do we recognize them?
Matt: You do not. They seem to be just asking questions and looking about the vicinity.
Marisha: Before they leave, can I be like, don't forget, they're looking for us. To Molly.
Taliesin: Do I recognize these people?
Matt: You do not.
Taliesin: Okay. I may have the chill cloak flipped, to try and be a little less conspicuous rolling around, for what it's worth.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: You did the artist formerly known as Prince?
Matt: So as you enter the chamber and you see the two Pumats are busy, the counter is currently not helmed and they're mid-discussion, but one of them turns and kind of acknowledges you enter. "Oh, that's real nice to see you. Just relax there a bit. If you need help immediately we can see if Prime's available."
Travis: Well, if you wouldn't mind, this is one of our compatriots. This is Yasha. New to your establishment.
Matt: "Yasha. That's a wonderful name. I can't help you because I'm helping this person, but just hang tight a second. Pumat? He'll be right with you."
Ashley: Isn't he Pumat?
Matt: You see two of them that look identical in the room.
Ashley: Oh, you guys are twins?
Matt: "Something like that. He'll be right with you." Turns around.
Liam: Just breathe it in.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You hear a couple of heavy footfalls, what sounds like a toppling of some metallic pan that (clattering metal) like, "Ah, shi-- hello!" The curtain opens and you see one of the Pumats, but with a set of goggles right above the head, an apron on with a bunch of different tools and various accoutrements stuffed into different pockets. "Hey, so I'm helping someone. Who needs help?"
Travis: Oh, actually--
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: This is our friend Yasha. She's new to your establishment.
Ashley: Hello.
Matt: "Right. Now, you've been here before. You're working with the other ones. All right. Morning. Morning to you. Hey, can I help you?" ASHLEY I just-- I mean, do you have Chinese stars? Throwing stars?
Matt: "I don't understand what that is."
Ashley: They're like pointy things that you throw and they're metal.
Matt: "Oh. Are you talking about a dagger or a dart or something like that?"
Ashley: Darts, daggers-- darts.
Matt: "You can probably go to a blacksmith and get that made for you. I don't really craft things here from their base components. We generally take them and I enchant them to a better degree. I make generally not-so-great things pretty great."
Ashley: Oh!
Liam: I gather we all hear this conversation, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. And you're catching that Pumat Prime is a little surlier than the other ones. He seems like he's a little more down to business than the various versions of him out there.
Taliesin: We're probably going to be dealing with some restless spirits actually, so if there's anything to deal with some of these phantasmagorical creatures, will-o'-wisps, that sort of thing.
Matt: "Ah, interesting. You're going to be dealing with some of the spiritual realm, you say?"
Taliesin: Yeah, inevitably.
Matt: "All right. Let's see. Pretty sure I got maybe a vial or two of holy water if that's what you're looking for. That's not usually my purview, but we keep a couple in stock just in case. Let me see what I can muster." Goes ahead and rummages through in the back. You hear more metal and glass clanking and one box gets shifted off to the side. "Ah, dang nabbit."
Travis: Yasha, do you have any healing potions?
Ashley: I don't. That's actually-- I wanted to get some. Let's see. Just want to double check to see if I do.
Matt: "All righty." Comes out. "I've got two vials of holy water remaining. Those will run you about 25 gold pieces apiece if you want them."
Taliesin: Perfect. That's exactly what I was looking for was two vials of holy water.
Matt: "Well, look at that. It's like it was meant to be. Straight up destiny."
Sam: (laughs)
Taliesin: Probably need some healing potions or something?
Ashley: Yeah. Do you have some healing potions?
Matt: "Ah, well you see, funny thing with all of these adventurers, keep coming in and clearing me out. We got maybe two more, but you got to give us time to restock. You guys, your friends here have been mighty hungry."
Ashley: Well, they're the Mighty Nein. (laughter)
Travis: Oh my god, that head shake afterwards.
Marisha: Her initial regret.
Travis: The bail.
Marisha: Immediate nope. Nah.
Ashley: How much are they?
Matt: "Those will put you back about 50 gold pieces apiece since we have the friendly discount of repeated customers. Isn't that right, one of-- me's?" One of the Pumats goes, "That's correct. They've been in here a few times." He's like, "All right. Great. Thank you for looking out there, buddy. All right. So--"
Travis: I'm really glad to hear that friendly discount's getting even friendlier. That really nice cloak you have on the wall.
Matt: "Yep?"
Travis: How much is that?
Matt: "Oh, you're referring to that protection cloak. Let's see here." (grunts) Takes it off the counter, checks it. "That'll run you back about 800 gold pieces."
Travis: I fell face first into some coin recently. I think I'll take that.
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: "Well." You watch the demeanor shift a little bit from like the "I'm busy." Like "Well, happy to see a big spender coming on first thing in the morning." You start seeing more of the connection with the other Pumats.
Liam: Ah, regular Percival de Rolo over here.
Matt: "Well, might I have your name? I don't think we've had the pleasure personally."
Travis: Fjord.
Matt: "Fjord--?"
Sam: Tough.
Matt: "Fjord Tough. Pumat Sol Prime. And I believe this is now known as Fjord's Cloak."
Ashley: So does that mean that the-- I've seen a deal somewhere with somebody, also threw in some healing spells when they bought a cloak? Is that a thing?
Matt: "You're looking for a discount for the healing potion?"
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Ashley: My charisma's fucked.
Matt: I know. But, hey, you never know.
Travis: I like it.
Liam: Yasha and Caleb in Napoleon Dynamite.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14? "You know what? I'm not going to lie. I'm kind of a fan of the no-nonsense kind of a lady. So, sure, I'll throw in a ten gold discount on each of those healing potions. So that's 80 gold for you for the two."
Ashley: I'll take them.
Matt: "All righty. Here you go."
Ashley: Thank you.
Matt: "Okay."
Liam: I'm sorry, I have a simple request.
Matt: "That's all right. Simple requests are always open. What do you need?"
Liam: About 100 gold worth of ink for transcribing arcane knowledge.
Matt: "Yeah, more of that wizard stuff. I got that for you. I got two ink vials there. Those'll last you for a little while. Get that going for you. Some parchment. 100 gold, friend. Thank you very much. Pleasure doing business with you."
Liam: I have four gold to my name again.
Sam: If you need a loan, I can--
Liam: Don't worry about it.
Marisha: Being a wizard's expensive, ja?
Liam: It is. It is.
Ashley: Yeah, I have no money.
Taliesin: We'll make some money.
Sam: Were there any throwing weapons that you have, even if they're enchanted?
Matt: "Well, I do have one enchanted dagger, if you're so interested."
Sam: Would she like that?
Liam: I don't think she would, actually.
Sam: She doesn't like to throw daggers. She only likes to throw--
Liam: She might, but it doesn't seem her bag.
Sam: What does it do?
Matt: "Well this one, when it's thrown, if it misses, it comes right back to you."
Sam: It comes right back to you?
Matt: "If it misses."
Sam: A dagger that comes back to you?
Matt: "If you miss with it."
Sam: Caleb, did you hear that?
Liam: Sounds like bullshit to me.
Sam: That's incredible.
Matt: "It's pretty useful. I don't know about incredible."
Travis: If you miss with it.
Matt: "Look, I'm just being straight with you. It's a pretty useful thing on occasion."
Liam: What about yourself?
Sam: Oh, I'm fine. He's already-- they're already making me something.
Liam: Yeah, but I've seen you throw a dagger or two in your time and you always have to walk out to the tree and pull it out or walk out to the gnoll and pull it out. This way it would come right back to you. Think about it.
Sam: Throwing a dagger just seems so inelegant to me. I don't know why. They're meant to cut food and to eat food with.
Matt: "I mean no offense to any of you here, but I got to get right back to work. Looks like one of my me's is available to help you for the rest of this--"
Liam: I understand. If she changes her mind, we'll let you know.
Matt: "Yeah, no, well, let them know. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful day. It's a pleasure to see you again. You too."
Ashley: Nice to meet you.
Matt: "Nice to meet you as well, big lady." He takes his goggles down. "Have a good day." He turns around and goes into the back chamber. It's funny, him saying big lady, because he's huge. He's bigger than you are. He goes into the back and goes right back to work and you hear another foot hit the pan. "Ah, I need to-- aw man."
Liam: How high are the ceilings in this store?
Matt: The ceiling's probably about ten-foot.
Liam: I low how your voice went (low voice) to (imitating Matt) "The ceiling's about--" Okay. Got it.
Matt: "Hi. Sorry about that. I was helping a customer, but he's left now. Not purchasing anything. So I'm happy to help you. What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: I think we're pretty well taken care of at this point.
Travis: We got everything we need.
Matt: "All righty. Well, have a wonderful day and come by whenever you like, big spender. I saw that."
Sam: Is my flask coming along all right?
Matt: "Coming along fine. I think that's part of what Pumat's working on right now."
Sam: Add any sort of shiny finish to it or some extra flair or baubles to it, that would be fine.
Matt: "I'll see what we can do. Thank you."
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: "Thank you."
Sam: All right. Thank you.
Matt: All right. Thank you.
Travis: We leave. Unique, huh?
Ashley: That's a-- I've never seen any-- I thought they were related and then they all have the same name so I guess that's another thing.
Travis: Yeah. You're quite the word wizard with the haggling there.
Ashley: Listen. I realize I'm not great with people. Just no need to point it out.
Travis: I was being honest. You actually got money off.
Ashley: Oh. I forgot about that. Yes, I did.
Travis: Yeah, nice job.
Taliesin: I've never seen you blush before.
Liam: She is quite pale. It's hard to tell.
Ashley: Well, what do we need--
Travis: She doesn't like the spotlight.
Liam: Attention's a bitch, isn't it?
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Nein!
Ashley: Nein.
Taliesin: We should probably go to the blacksmith at some point.
Matt: Easily enough at the blacksmith, for the sake of brevity here. Yeah, you can pick up--
Liam: A thousand throwing stars.
Marisha: Yeah, for ten gold. Just ball bearings and throwing stars.
Matt: For a single dart, which is the equivalent. We'll say there are darts and there are, we'll say throwing stars. Sure, why not? Because of the Archive's nearby, there probably would be a use for them. They're not often called for. It's probably a surprise that somebody wanted to purchase them, but they have about 20, we'll say, throwing stars, which act as darts, for five copper a piece.
Liam: I hand Yasha one of the ten gold that Beau gave me. This is Beau's money, so I think she'd want you to purchase them.
Ashley: Well, she gave you the money.
Liam: Yeah, but she doesn't like me very much.
Ashley: Well maybe that will make her like you more.
Liam: That's doubtful.
Ashley: Why do you think that?
Liam: Why do I think it's doubtful she will like me? She has threatened me constantly. She is very aggressive. She's very surly. She doesn't smile a lot unless there is a spell cast on her. I've only seen her punch people in the face.
Taliesin: Has she punched you in the face yet?
Liam: Give her time.
Taliesin: I think she likes you.
Ashley: The only reason I might disagree is because she did give you money.
Taliesin: I'll take that money. It'll be no problem.
Liam: I give one gold to Yasha and I hold on to the other nine.
All: Nein.
Ashley: What are you going to do with the rest of the money?
Liam: I'm going to give it back to her.
Taliesin: We can, to be fair, get all 20 of those throwing darts for one gold.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So the transaction completed, you have a bunch of these throwing stars. They're metallic. They're triangular in shape and bladed at the edges. Pretty light.
Ashley: Can I test one out?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Ashley: Nope. Seven. No, sorry. Nine.
All: Nein!
Matt: You throw it towards this post and it (whoosh). (whinnies) This horse all of a sudden bucks and kicks the side of the stable nearby and you hear the wood crack from the kick. All of the sudden you hear voices of the two stable hands trying to hold back this horse. So it's 19 throwing stars.
Ashley: Fuck, sorry.
Taliesin: It was worth it.
Ashley: Admittedly, I'm not good at throwing things, but it looked really cool.
Travis: Did we bring Horris with us?
Marisha: No, I'm watching him. While you guys are doing this, I'm like: Check under your bed. Did you leave anything behind? Go pee. One last time, man. Come on, come on.
Liam: Too real for me, too real.
Travis: Camp counselor Beau. Incredible.
Matt: Caleb, Molly, and Jester, actually, as you guys are walking back, you notice that there are now clusters of about three or four crownsguard at different places that are in the process of asking questions to people, going from place to place and inquiring.
Taliesin: I am going to turn around and immediately head towards the other bar. The Evening Nip.
Sam: Jester's not with us.
Matt: Right, she's not with you. You're right.
Taliesin: I'm going to let you know. Tell them I'm hiding at the bar and I'll meet them there when it's time.
Liam: We see guards asking around?
Matt: Yeah, like talking to people, asking questions.
Liam: Okay. I am just going to pull my cloak up and put the hood up. That's all.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way back to The Leaky Tap. There, what little Horris had on him, a little bit of change and materials to leave, is ready to go. Beau and Jester are propped and ready as well, I assume? What do you guys do?
Sam: Should we go on our mission or should we get rid of Horris?
Travis: Well, we're dropping him off.
Liam: Well, Horris is part of the mission.
Travis: Yeah we'll be dropping him off at The Evening Nip.
Liam: We should go. Let's make hay while the sun shines.
Sam: Drop off Horris and then go. Do we know where we're going for this mission?
Travis: A mile out of town.
Marisha: The Evening Nip, and then they're going to escort us out.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: We'll be blinded.
Ashley: Beau, Caleb got these for you.
Marisha: (gasps) Perfect! Thank you.
Ashley: There were 20, but one of them fell out of the bag.
Liam: Yes, they were so heavy and I am so weak that I gave them to Yasha to carry. Here's your change.
Marisha: Thank you. Why are you acting so weird about this?
Liam: I'm just weird in general.
Marisha: Thanks for the change. Thank you, Yasha.
Ashley: One of them's missing, but I think it fell out of the--
Sam: It was an accident. There was nothing suspicious about it.
Ashley: I think it fell out of the bag.
Travis: We should go. Okay. Horris, we're going to try and get you out of here.
Matt: "Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Whatever you need."
Travis: What?
Liam: This is a Liam thing, not a Caleb thing.
Matt: Yeah?
Liam: I'm just going to say, right now, where we are, Frumpkin, I'm telling him to follow us all, about 55 to 60 feet back behind us.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. All right. As you guys make your way towards The Evening Nip, Horris is looking a bit nervous, but does look around and seems genuinely very thankful. He's like, "Seriously, this means a lot. To both me and Dolan. Thank you."
Marisha: Yeah, you're welcome. And then I put a bag over his head and I say sorry, sorry.
Travis: I think that can probably wait until we are at The Evening Nip.
Marisha: Well, he can't see where we're going, right?
Travis: Yeah, sure he can. We just don't want crownsguard thinking we're walking around a hooded person.
Marisha: I figured we're-- All right.
Matt: Probably hold on that until we get-- We'll say, for the purposes of this, you're pretty close to The Evening Nip when you do this.
Travis: Okay. We made it. Now's the time.
Marisha: Okay, okay. Now over his head.
Liam: 6 00am, wake up!
Travis: We're just pushing around a guy with a bag on his head. Hey! Nah, it's cool.
Matt: He's had too much to drink?
Marisha: He's going through a Jake Gyllenhaal phase.
Travis: (high pitched) His eyes are dilated.
Liam: Happy Halloween!
Matt: You guys enter The Evening Nip. Clive is there at the end. "Hey. You're a friend with a bag?"
Travis: We made arrangements with The Gentleman downstairs.
Matt: "All right." (grunts) He leads you to the back, shoves things off of the latch, pulls up the trapdoor, down the stairs, and you eventually make your way back into the tavern below, where Mollymauk is waiting nervously, drinking.
Liam: I don't like the proximity here. Frumpkin's gone, out there. Then once we're in the speakeasy-- sorry, I just ate a cracker.
Matt: That's okay.
Liam: Frumpkin's under a table.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. All right. As you guys head back down, Horris is like, "I trust you guys. I trust you." You make your way down. The room is not as busy as it was last you left. There's maybe six individuals in there. Most of them are the individuals who were previously posted with rifles or new individuals also posted with rifles up at the top. There is The Gentleman, finishing a meal at the table with Sorah, his bodyguard, at the side. "Ah! I see you've made it." He sets the things down, pushes the plate to the side. "So I take it this is your contraband?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "Very well. And you would wish this smuggling to head where? Our cleanest, to be fair, our cleanest means of smuggling out would be actually through the river after you pass through, as that leads us to the northern swamps of Berleben. And that would be probably one of the safest spaces still easily able to keep him out of sight and to a safe space out of the Crownsguard's watch."
Travis: Outstanding. We defer to your expertise.
Matt: "Great. Then we'll wait an hour after your passage forward and send your contraband on his way to safety with two individuals to escort him and lead him to civilization beyond the outskirts. Sound fair?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Sounds fair.
Matt: "Very well. Take care of him, please." They pull the shoulders of Horris back and Horris is like, "All right. Be safe."
Travis: It's all right. Go with them. You'll be fine.
Matt: "And you know what? Kara and, we'll say, Dweez. You go ahead and lead them down to the--"
Sam: Dweez.
Matt: "Lead them, blindfolded of course, through the underworks to docks and send them up the way to their agreed upon task." You see Kara come back through one of the doors on the steps and behind, you see that creepy gnome from earlier sitting behind.
Marisha: Dweez.
Matt: (creepy chuckling) Kara goes, "All right. Well," and she pulls a few pieces of cloth. It looks like they're used to moving individuals through, and they have already prepared blindfolds in place. She passes them out to you and instructs you all to put on a blindfold and take a hand.
Liam: As soon as the blindfold is on, I'm going to pass my sight and hearing over to Frumpkin.
Marisha: Nice!
Taliesin: That's a good call.
Liam: If it works.
Marisha: I'll hold on to Caleb to make sure he can still walk.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Thanks, blind woman.
Marisha: Well, they said all hold hands.
Liam: Okay. Yeah. (boof)
Matt: Who's at the very front and who's at the very back of this chain?
Travis: I'll stay at the front.
Marisha: Sorry. Doing the best I can. Sorry.
Liam: (whack) Sorry!
Matt: Fjord front.
Marisha: Sorry! Had to get an opportunity in.
Matt: Who's in the back?
Travis: Wouldn't mind having some muscle up front.
Ashley: Okay. I'll be behind Grog-- Fjord.
Taliesin: I'll go behind Yasha.
Matt: Okay, who's after Mollymauk?
Travis: Jester?
Matt: Jester, all right. Who's after Jester?
Marisha: I'm with Caleb in the back.
Matt: Okay. Nott?
Sam: I'll hold onto Caleb as well.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's a good order.
Matt: So there, and we have Frumpkin trailing behind at the very back. So Fjord, at the very front, Kara takes your hand and begins pulling, and in the very, very back, Caleb, this tiny gnome hand grabs your hand and goes, "(heh heh) Hold on. (heh heh)."
Liam: This is okay.
Matt: They loop you through the room a few times to discombobulate you, and direction in the chamber, and pull you through in different ways, to prevent you from orienting where you were and where you're going. Eventually you're led through a doorway, you hear some things shift, and then turned around a bit, and then led down a ladder. The ladder goes down for about 20 or so feet before your feet touch some sort of soft dirt, packed dirt-type feeling. The sound of the music and chatter vanishes up ahead and you hear, as soon as you all head down the ladder, a latch close and lock above you.
Liam: How did my cat do?
Matt: Your cat managed to-- actually, make a stealth check.
Marisha: Come on, kitty! Come on, Frumpkin!
Matt: For Frumpkin.
Liam: Oh shit.
Travis: What?
Liam: Total shit. Five!
Matt: Five?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: As Frumpkin's trying to trail behind, Dweez turns and goes, "(heh) No! (heh heh)" and puts a hand out and grabs Frumpkin by the scruff and holds Frumpkin up, and then throws Frumpkin back into the bar.
Liam: Okay. If I saw that, I would snap my fingers and make Frumpkin poof out.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to bite my tongue and bring Frumpkin back.
Matt: Okay. Dweez is clutching the back of your hand and goes, (confused sound).
Liam: It's just a nervous tic. I'm a nervous fellow. Sorry.
Matt: (creepy laughter)
Travis: What the fuck?! (laughs)
Matt: Okay. So you head back down. You are led down a tunnel. It weaves a bit. You turn to the right, down another tunnel for 100, 200, 300 feet.
Liam: (snaps fingers) Frumpkin back in.
Matt: Frumpkin back in.
Liam: 50 feet behind.
Matt: Right. You can see this a bit. These are tight, individual tunnels. It feels almost like a mine in the fact that it has occasionally a wood structure for support between it. A lot of it is packed with earth that's been carved out. Eventually you'll split off into two and you'll see what looks to be a small resting chamber with another set of tables and a bunk. You go past another area and there's occasional torchlight set up on parts of the wall. You can see a couple of shifty individuals that are in the process of stacking crates somewhere.
Liam: There's other people down here doing shit as we walk by.
Matt: Yeah. They'll walk by you and occasionally look. One of them will stop and inspect and move on. No one seems to fuck with you at the minute because you're with Kara. In fact, one of them seems to get close to you and looks and sees Dweez and goes (ugh) and just moves on. You do hear a noise, a strange like (guttural animal snorting) and you hear (whip crack) (animal grunting) echoing down the hall. You move around one spot and there's one archway that Frumpkin passes by, looking down, and you can see there's a pit, and there are a number of cages set up in there, about four of them, that have different creatures inside. It's too low-lit for Frumpkin to really see from this distance what's in there, but one of them is currently having a bit of a conniption fit and you see three cloaked figures that are on the outside. One of them is trying to whip elements of it that are coming at it; the other one is trying to prod it in the sides and it's getting agitated.
Liam: (as Jester) Jester has a question. She would like to know what it smells like in here.
Matt: At this point, it smells like wet dirt and earth. That's about it. It smells like a dank subterranean tunnel. As you pass by the creature smell, you can smell hints of dung, fresh and old, and some sort of pheromone, like a very strong pheromone that's very unpleasant, the scent. Continuing on, you move through another tunnel. Another figure walks by and stops as you pass and watches you as you continue. Down another set of stairs, and then eventually, the echo begins to get a little louder. Your feet hit wood. Frumpkin can see this as you pass in. You've hit a dock. This is now a natural cavern. The moisture catches you first. What was initially a somewhat cavernous damp has now become very moist and you can hear the slight sound of a river moving through. Frumpkin can see this, too. There's an entire underground river that is now curving past this entrance way, leading in two different directions. Along this river, you can see there are a few lanterns that are set up with this soft, greenish glow. They're perpetually burning in certain areas and are bolted into the rock and stone. There on the side of this dock, you can see four different boats that are currently roped and tied to the edge there. There is a figure sitting on a stool who is taking a dagger and moving it on the edge of one of the wooden poles that is on the very outside end of the dock. At this point, all of your blindfolds are removed and you've come to the end of this part of the journey.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: Kara says, "Sorry about that, but you were respectful. Thank you." She collects the blindfolds, and Dweez, who is still clutching your hand, lets go and goes (creepy chuckle).
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: Kara goes, "All right. Two of these ships are yours to use. You're heading up that path there about a mile or so. It's with the river, thankfully, so the stream will be carrying you through. A set of paddles to each of you. Whoever wants to helm that; that's up to you. Pay attention: from what I've been told, you'll see the change in the texture of the wall on the left-hand side traveling northward. Look for the small collapse on that end."
Travis: Collapse in the wall.
Matt: "Correct. Be spry. Sometimes some creatures do find their way living down here, so be ready to move past quickly or find a way to duck them if you can."
Travis: We can take it from here.
Matt: "All right. Good luck!"
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: You'll be able to find your way back, right?
Matt: "We'll be fine."
Travis: I'm not good at joking.
Matt: The guy at the edge of the docks sits up and Kara goes, "The back two for these folks. Let them go. Gentleman's orders." He doesn't say anything, just sits up. You see the hood that's up, he pulls it back a bit and you can see there is this older, grizzled human with very short gray hair, deep scar across the back of his head that curves off to the top of where his receding hairline is. It's just been very deep-set where the skin dimples heavily along the edge of the scar. He's got this very scruffy gray and white beard. His head's a bit sunk into his shoulders. He walks over to the edge and unties each of the boats and hands the rope to one of you. The first one goes to Fjord, and the other one just goes to Beau, goes back to his station and sits down, sticks his blade in the side of the wood and keeps wedging it in there. You get a better look up there and you can see this wood is splintered to shit on the top. This guy has been, over time, slowly pushing away at this wood for whatever amusement he needs to pass the time down here where he's stationed.
Travis: These boats look like they'll fit three to four each?
Matt: These boats look like they'll fit about four people each.
Travis: Okay. All right. Two boats. Jester's in mine. Yasha, you should go in the second boat. We're going to need muscle in case we need to move fast.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: I get in with Nott. In the Yasha boat.
Sam: Who's piloting our boat?
Marisha: Yasha's one, and then Jester's the other.
Sam: She's piloting-- do you know how to drive a boat?
Ashley: Well, we'll find out.
Sam: (scared noise)
Ashley: Yes, I do.
Sam: Oh, okay. You're so needlessly scaring me for no reason!
Matt: So we have Fjord, Jester, Molly, and Beau in one boat? And Yasha and Caleb and Nott in the other? Is that how it is?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: And I send away Frumpkin.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to place on my ring of water walking that I stole from Jester.
Travis: Is this a boat with like, two oars?
Matt: Two oars on each side, yeah.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys all get in. It rocks a bit as you all adjust your weight and find a place where the boat itself isn't listing too far to one side or the other. The river current is pulling it along, so as soon as you step off, the last person holding the rope, they immediately start following the current of the river, which is not rapid, but it is moving at a fair speed. You all gather yourselves and follow it down, and as you progress, you notice those green lanterns that are lit only seem to cover the vicinity of that dock until, eventually, you are going into a pitch black cavern.
Liam: On our own?
Matt: Hmm?
Liam: We are all on our own here right?
Matt: You're all alone.
Travis: Caleb?
Liam: Ja?
Travis: You want to do your--? Read my mind.
Liam: (poof poof)
Marisha: I bring out and put on the goggles.
Liam: I let two of the globules hover around the front of each boat. One at the front and one at the back of each boat.
Matt: All right, so as the orbs--
Marisha: So romantic, you guys!
Liam: (singing) There you see her!
Matt: (singing) There you see her!
Matt: (singing) There across the way!
Marisha: (singing) There across the way!
Travis: (singing) Yah, yah, yah!
Liam: (singing) She's got a giant sword, but who cares? You've got to ask her!
Marisha: (singing) Yah, yah, yah!
Taliesin: Hey, Beau. I pull out one of the holy water flasks. Think you know what to do with this?
Marisha: I think I do!
Taliesin: Just in case.
Marisha: I put it away.
Taliesin: Who do you think the other one should go to?
Marisha: Anyone who can beat face, but doesn't have magic. Yasha, maybe? Nott?
Taliesin: Maybe Nott might be safer.
Sam: What do I do with it?
Taliesin: You're not in a boat with us.
Sam: (shouting) What do I do with it!?
Marisha: You dip your ammunition in it.
Taliesin: This one you throw?
Matt: This one you throw.
Marisha: Oh, this one is a throwing one?
Matt: This isn't an oil, this is water.
Marisha: Oh, never mind!
Taliesin: Know how to throw stuff?
Sam: No, I've never thrown anything in my life.
Taliesin: If there was a basket for trash and you threw it--
Sam: As he's talking, I throw a gold coin at his head.
Matt: Okay, roll a d20 and add your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Wow, that's exciting!
Sam: That's a d20, I mean, that's a natural 20.
Taliesin: That doesn't count! That's cocked!
Liam: Sure it counts! It counts doubly as much!
Sam: Do you want me to redo?
Liam: No!
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Redo. Way less!
Taliesin: Way less!
Sam: Dexterity what?
Matt: Add your dexterity modifier.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: It goes right past; you hear it (splash) into the water below.
Taliesin: I'll take that. So when we get into the boat together, I'm going to give you the other holy water flask.
Liam: (as Jester) "How big is the chamber we are traveling in?"
Matt: The chamber seems to shift at times. Sometimes it squeezes in where it's just the river and the edges of the tunnel at about 15 feet from side to side.
Liam: (as Jester) "With my darkvision, how high is the ceiling in here?"
Matt: The ceiling is roughly 15 feet as well. 15 to ten feet; sometimes it coasts down and becomes a bit lower. It is a natural river so--
Liam: (as Jester) "I grab the edge of the boat, and I say: Oskar! Is there no echo?"
Matt: (echoing) Oskar!
Liam: (as Jester) "That was pretty good!"
Matt: As you guys head deeper into the subterranean tunnels towards your destination, weapons at your side, prepared for whatever comes in the near future--
Liam: God damn, he's going to end the game!
All: No!
Matt: We're going to go ahead and end tonight's game.
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: We don't have Laura here. We've had two episodes that went four plus hours. My back's hurting a little.
Liam: Four more hours! Mimosas!
Travis: The people marathoning right now will be grateful to hear that.
Liam: Come on!
Taliesin: And you have a holy water now.
Liam: It's like playing a video game for 30 minutes. It's so unsatisfying!
Matt: We've been here for three hours!
Travis: I know it's coming. I know stuff is coming.
Matt: So yeah, before we get too deep into this, we'll go ahead and pick up next week when Laura can join us.
Marisha: Feel better, Laura!
Taliesin: Please feel better.
Matt: We'll pick up from there. Once again guys, thank you so much for tuning in. Check out the awesomeness of 826LA and the stuff we are doing with them. Check out Pillars of Eternity 2 and the really cool stuff that we are doing with them! And yeah, we'll be back into this next week. Until then guys, have a wonderful week, we love you, and is it Thursday yet?
Travis: No! Nein! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Before we get into it, first off I wanted to welcome back our fantastic Ashly Burch.
Sam: Ashly Burch, everybody!
Ashly: Oh, hello. Thank you.
Matt: It's good to have you back. For those who missed the announcement on Talks Machina, she'll be joining us for the next episode as well, and for our GenCon live show.
Sam: And maybe more?
Matt: We'll see where it goes. I don't want to take up too much of her time, but we'll see where it goes. We will at some point this evening have another guest joining us, which we'll introduce as she comes in. We have already announced her, so it doesn't matter, why am I holding it back? Sumalee Montano will be joining us, but she'll be coming in as the narrative requires. In the meantime, let's get through some announcements. First and foremost, we have our fantastic sponsor for the campaign, our friends at D&D Beyond.
Sam: D&D Beyond, everybody! As mentioned last week, the newly revamped digital character sheet for D&D Beyond has released. With improved desktop and tablet views, better at-a-glance information, all kinds of customization, and an updated PDF export.
Matt: I'm really excited about that.
Sam: As you guys all remember--not you; a couple months back, I asked you Critters out there who use D&D Beyond to write in and tell me about their D&D Beyond experiences. With the studio move and stuff, things got lost. Some of the letters got lost a little bit, or misplaced, but we found them. I'm going to read you some of the letters from the fans. They're from a couple weeks ago. "Dear Sam, loving D&D Beyond. Just used their easy character creator to roll a brand-new character after my favorite PC was tragically killed last week. I'm still really sad about it, but watching your show is taking my mind off the loss. I love how Critical Role doesn't remind me about that death all the time." Again, these are from a few weeks ago, so I haven't--
Matt: You're such an asshole.
Sam: "Dear Sam, my whole campaign uses D&D Beyond, and their new shareable links really help us play faster. Side note: I love your interactions with Taliesin in this campaign! Don't change that dynamic, it's perfect and I can't get enough of it. Thank you."
Matt: Goddamn it, Sam. You're the worst.
Sam: "Dear Sam--" These are from a couple weeks ago, that is the premise.
Matt: These are the truth!
Sam: "Dear Sam, just signed up for a Master-level subscription at D&D Beyond, and all their content is so cool! I'm enclosing a photo of a tattoo I just got; it's my first and I'm very proud, as you can see. That's Nott and Mollymauk dancing together. I know it's in cursive, so you might not be able to read that they're both saying, 'We're going to live forever!' What do you think?" There was a picture included in that one.
Ashly: For my first action I kill Sam.
Sam: Last but not least, we got an actual letter from the D&D Beyond corporation, which also got lost and found. It says, "Dear Sam: Hey, let's refrain from anything sad or emotional in your ads this week. We want players to associate our app with fun, not intense loss that might trigger feelings of pain or misery. Keep it light! Do one of those dumb songs you write. Oh, and give our love to Taliesin! He's our favorite, and he's the only reason we advertise on your show." I could not have planned it because those are from weeks ago, Matt.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I love that you "lost" the printed-out, e-mail letters in our move.
Sam: Everyone used the same paper, stock, and font.
Ashly: They look really pristine.
Sam: All right. One of them was fake.
Matt: Thank you, Sam. And thank you, our friends at D&D Beyond, and I'm sorry.
Liam: You've got to laugh.
Matt: Moving on from that, as a reminder we are heading to San Diego Comic Con, like, in a day. As well as Ashly.
Ashly: I am.
Matt: We're going to be also at New York Comic Con in October, which we're excited about. Our Comic Con panel is this Saturday, July 21st at 6:30pm in room 6BCF. We'll air the panel next Tuesday in place of Talks Machina, so if you aren't there at the event, you'll still have a chance to see the panel next week, so look for that. The details are at CritRole.com. I will also be doing a cartoon voices panel that same day on Saturday at 1:00pm in the same room, 6BCF. Ashly, I believe you have something going on at Comic Con as well.
Ashly: I'm going to be moderating the final San Diego Comic Con Adventure Time panel, because the series is ending. It will be fun, but probably sad, but fun! It'll be fun. I was told to keep it light. So I'm keeping it light. Then in the evening, I'm going to be joining the good, good boys of The Adventure Zone at their live show. So I'm getting my D&D fill.
Sam: A lot of adventure.
Ashly: A lot of adventure, a lot of D&D. It's great.
Matt: Give the boys our love.
Ashly: I will.
Matt: Awesome. Moving on from that. We have Talks Machina every Tuesday. Next week, you'll be able to see the panel. The week after that, you'll be able to talk about whatever next week's episode is and this week's episode together! Every Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, here on Geek & Sundry's Twitch or Alpha, where our fantastic host, Brian W. Foster, destroys our sense of well-being and worth of living. If you want to submit or email your GIFs and fanart, give them to submit@talksmachina.com. Currently only the US and Canada, excluding Quebec, are available for those giveaways because of weird laws. Check it out. A reminder that we have our Wyrmwood giveaways during the break of Critical Role, but they are back under the Critical Role Twitch stream. When we come to the break towards the middle of the evening, we'll announce it, you move over to the Critical Role Twitch, twitch.tv/criticalrole, to be able to enter it then. Keep your eyes posted, and I will notify you as that comes about. That is all I've got as far as announcements, anyone have anything else they want to talk about?
Liam: I just want to procrastinate and prolong the--
Marisha: Mm-hmm.
Ashly: What'd you do today? What'd you eat for breakfast?
Liam: Busy day? Was it a busy day?
Matt: You assume I ate breakfast. You assume I've eaten at all this week.
Ashly: Oh no!
Sam: I'm sure if Laura were here, she would say there are still many Nott the Best Detective Agency T-shirts in the store. Are there? I don't know.
Matt: I don't know, I should probably--
Sam: Laura?
Ashly: Laura?
Sam: Okay, she's not here.
Liam: Travis, bring me pickles!
Matt: That's exactly what she'd be saying right now.
Ashly: Oh my god, that was a perfect Laura. I thought she was here!
Liam: Pretty spot on. I've known her a long time.
Matt: All right then. That brings us into tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Liam: (scatting) [click, TV static] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Sam: (scatting) [click, TV static] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Marisha: --you!
Matt: Welcome back. (laughter)
Matt: (frustrated sigh) So?
Ashly: This is too much emotional emotional whiplash. Can you stand for the full four hours?
Sam: I want to.
Matt: No! Oh god!
Liam: Metal.
Marisha: I can see the wrinkles from where it was packaged.
Matt: Okay then. Last we left off, The Mighty Nein were making their way northward across the northern side of the Marrow Valley, toward the city of Shadycreek Run, to fulfill the second of two jobs they had accepted from The Gentleman while they were in Zadash. Along the journey, while they were leaving Hupperdook in the middle of the night, three of their members had been taken. It was discovered in the morning when they were nowhere to be found, that they had been captured by a group of slavers traveling north back to the city of Shadycreek Run itself. Upon investigating the details of this capture, you encountered an individual coming up the road with a similar aligning interest, Keg. In discussing the means of traveling to find these individuals responsible, and discovering that Keg had information on them, you decided to travel together making your way around the Crispvale Thicket. Encountering a number of indigenous, insect-like creatures known as ankhegs near the long-abandoned farmlands that were once built in the outskirts of the forest. Camping inside, you encountered a few members of a firbolg village that had long existed, hidden from the world within this thicket that had been assaulted by these same slavers, known as the Iron Shepherds. You encountered an elder protector of this tribe, along with a boy who had survived this encounter, and were sent off on your way. Traveling northward on horseback, you managed to catch up and actually make ground on the Iron Shepherds. Comparing your intel, and through a few surprises as to what they were carrying, a plan was hatched to set an ambush, to halt them in their tracks, and assault them. Upon the plan taking off, things were going in your favor, but through a series of bad lucks-- A bad lucks, the plural, it's an actual English phrase.
Ashly: That's how bad they were.
Matt: They were bad. A series of moments of bad luck, and a too-late realization of the overwhelming power of the foe you faced, one of you fell. Mollymauk lies slain in the middle of the road at the hands of Lorenzo, the leader of the Iron Shepherds. Making an example, pushing Keg onto the ground, leaving her with the knowledge of what he perceives as her fault, to live with it; and to spread their name and the terror of what they do, and not to let anybody else get in their way. You all watched quietly, unable to really have a moment yet, to digest what has happened, as you see the carts slowly, quietly, make their way northward: out of sight beyond the hills, towards your eventual destination. And that's where we begin. There's a faint bit of snowfall that's still coming down from the clouds above you there in the valley. The flurry, the storm that has been encroaching is not that far off. You look down past the somewhat-muddy tracks of the wheels of the carts that had headed away from you, your horses still stashed alongside the outer hills in which you had set this ambush. You look down to the bloodied, still body of Mollymauk, as the snow slowly begins to fall and rest upon his form.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to give us about ten minutes to figure out what we want to do here, and then I am sending Frumpkin out after them. We need to decide something now, because I am going to be out of it for a bit.
Marisha: Yeah. We do need to decide something. Beau walks over to Keg, and grabs Keg by the coif, and tries to slam Keg into the ground.
Matt: Do you resist?
Marisha: Did you think that maybe telling us that Lorenzo was a high fucking magic user would have been-- Or are you still fucking working with them?
Ashly: I didn't know! I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I didn't know.
Liam: Beauregard, she would have told us. She wouldn't have been able to hide it.
Marisha: Where is his fucking stupid tapestry? Where is it?
Ashly: They are going to Shadycreek. They are probably going to take them to The Sour Nest, that's where they--
Marisha: I go, and I look. Is his tapestry still on her horse?
Matt: Yeah, the tapestry of Bahamut is still rolled up and strapped over the back of one of the horses.
Marisha: I storm over to it and I rip it off the horse and I say: This is ours now. He was our fucking friend, he wasn't your fucking friend. We're taking this back.
Liam: I pull Keg up. This place they are going, is it permanent? Or a temporary camp, or it's been there for years and this where they always are?
Ashly: It's where they always are.
Liam: Do you know how far off we are from it now?
Ashly: How far is Shadycreek?
Matt: About two days' travel and it's maybe a two hour journey into the forest north of Shadycreek.
Marisha: I go over to Molly's body.
Ashly: This is pointless.
Sam: What? What is pointless?
Ashly: They're even more powerful than I remember. I didn't even fucking know that Lorenzo could do that. You saw what he did, there's no way. It's fucked.
Marisha: I think she's fucking right. How long have you been separated from these fucking assholes?
Ashly: (long sigh) Maybe a month, I don't know.
Sam: They learned to do that in a month?
Ashly: Yeah.
Marisha: It's not a lot of time to--
Ashly: They didn't show me much. I'm clearly not very fucking bright, so there's a lot I probably didn't pick up on, but-- I don't know. I'm realizing I don't fucking know anything about them.
Liam: How many people are in their camp, what did you call it?
Ashly: The Sour Nest is where the Iron Shepherds have camp.
Liam: Yeah.
Ashly: But I mean, Shadycreek Run is-- It's a full city.
Liam: Sure. What about The Sour Nest?
Ashly: I thought there were just five. I don't know who those other two were. I don't fucking know! Everything that I thought I knew about them-- I don't know.
Marisha: I search Molly's body and look for the tarot cards first.
Matt: Easy enough to find. You have to go through a few pockets on the inside of the jacket, but you eventually find where he keeps them.
Marisha: I take those and I keep those to myself. Take the amulet.
Matt: Okay, so you have the periapt of wound closure.
Marisha: Toss it to Caleb.
Sam: You're just going to pick his body off?
Marisha: I'm going to take what his dead body isn't using any more.
Sam: But he woke up before, maybe we should leave it with him in case he needs it later.
Marisha: I'm going to leave him with everything else. I don't think we should take his sword.
Liam: What do we want to do?
Sam: Caleb, she's right, we can't fight them.
Ashly: Cut your losses.
Marisha: Not without help, anyway. Did you guys just suddenly fucking forget that they took Yasha? They took Fjord, they took Jester.
Liam: That is what I'm talking about. Mollymauk is dead. Three are not, not yet, and we have invested a lot of time into forging this alliance we are in, Nott. I'm not proposing a head-to-head confrontation. Maybe. I want to know where they are, I want to know what conditions they're in. I'm not willing to walk away from this.
Sam: It would be the smarter bet.
Ashly: He's not wrong.
Marisha: Fuck you both.
Liam: We could live, sure, we could live. We go hide in the woods. Go back to picking pockets and pulling scams on people. You know that I want more than that.
Marisha: Do y'all remember what Molly said a few weeks ago when he told us that he left every town better than what he found it? When he first told me that, I remember that my first initial knee jerk reaction was, "You fucking arrogant, narcissistic bastard, no one can fucking know that." He was an arrogant bastard, but he was right and do you know how I know? We had a conversation last night when we were up for watch, and he asked me what my greatest lie was and we pulled fucking cards for it. Loser would go first. He told me this story about tricking a town into thinking he was royalty, being a king, to pull off a scam. I was almost going to tell him about my childhood, and I didn't. Because he told that fucking story and I realized: even in his scams, when he was doing something shitty, he was still making people feel good or feel special. The town was being visited by-- graced by his presence, by his royal highness. And I told him this story of ruining a couple's lives by extorting them because I fucking could. Because I fucking felt like it. I realized if I can deliberately leave a town shittier than what I found it, of course he could fucking leave a town better than what he found it. And I'm not going to do that again. I'm not saying that I'm going to go off and be a fucking hero, but maybe we can equal out and I can at least not fuck any more shit up. Take baby steps towards the leaving the town better... thing. That's the least I can do for him. And I'm going to start with these fuckheads.
Ashly: I'll take you there.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: What are we going to do first? The man crawled out of a grave once, if he's to be believed.
Marisha: Who the fuck is Lucien?
Liam: He's done it once, maybe he will do it again. Do we stay here, do we try to find, I don't-- I've read of miracles.
Ashly: Look, you guys don't have a lot of time for your friends. The ones that are captured.
Sam: We should bury him, and leave some sort of marker--
Liam: A note.
Marisha: I'm assuming Shadycreek doesn't have high level priests and the Empire and churches and stuff like that. Doesn't sound like the type of place that has--
Ashly: One of the last places you'd find something like that.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: The only things that you would know of Shadycreek, from your experience, would be whatever miracle workers that would exist there are owned by the tribes, and weird tales of strange hermits that live in the forest beyond the city.
Ashly: Okay. But I haven't met anyone directly.
Matt: Not directly, no.
Liam: How many days' travel are we from the beginning of this journey?
Matt: From the beginning?
Liam: Yeah. From The Gentleman.
Matt: Close to 17 or so days since you left Zadash.
Liam: We are in the middle of nowhere.
Sam: Keg, no judgement or anything, but you sort of froze up in the little fight we had.
Ashly: Yeah.
Sam: When you say you can take us there, are you just talking about taking us there and dropping us off?
Ashly: I'll take you there, I'll help you through. I'll do what I can.
Sam: How do we know you won't freeze up again?
Marisha: Or cut and run, like you said.
Ashly: The way you talk about Molly. I had a friend like that once, just one. They killed him, and I ran then, too. I left him behind: he's the reason I'm here. I didn't think I would do it again, but I did, I fucking froze up. I can't promise it, but I promise that I'll try. My life isn't shit, it's never been. It's kind of the shit about meeting people that are actually kind is that you realize what a fucking nightmare your life's been before.
Marisha: It's funny how the good people can make assholes like us feel so small.
Ashly: Yeah.
Liam: You can get us there, though.
Ashly: I can get you there.
Liam: It does not need to be a frontal assault, we don't need to throw our lives away.
Sam: We can't fight them! We can't fight them.
Ashly: Here's the thing about Shadycreek Run  it is a lawless town. If you guys have got coin, then people will fight for you. There isn't a lot of honor there, but there are people that are willing to fight if they're incentivized. There might be people we can gather, at least get intel, there might be ways of breaking them out, I don't know. There are people there that hate the Iron Shepherds and there are a lot of fucking people there that are scared of them. It is a long shot. I don't think it's unreasonable to say it's a suicide mission, but if you want to do it, if you want to go after them, they don't run the town. There are people that could be swayed. But you're going to need money.
Marisha: I go back over to Molly's body and start finding his coin purse. He's going to sponsor his own campaign to resurrection.
Matt: Okay, on Molly you find 173 gold pieces and 13 silver pieces amongst a cluster of other knick knacks and trinkets if you are so interested.
Marisha: Nott, want a trinket? To remember Molly by?
Sam: Molly said not to steal from happy people.
Marisha: Is that what you think I'm doing?
Sam: Nope. I think you should take everything you can, but I can't steal from this one.
Marisha: I take the money.
Ashly: I don't mean to rush you guys, but shit gets way worse once they get back to The Sour Nest.
Liam: I pull out the clay cat's paw and cast Earthen Grasp and the cat's claw forms out of the dirt and I use it to start digging a hole in the earth.
Matt: Near one of the hills?
Liam: Yeah. As the cat's claw starts digging down, I'm looking for-- the glaive wasn't left, right? He took it with him?
Matt: No, he took it with him.
Liam: Sticks, branches, ja?
Matt: There are branches to the tree that you had cut down, some of the logs that are there, there are some pieces of branch that could be utilized.
Ashly: You trying to make firewood?
Liam: No. I go to Molly's body and begin to get the coat off him.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The claw has about a minute, so hopefully it can dig something deep enough.
Matt: I'd say given the size of the claw and its earthen attachment, it can make, in that minute that it has, a fairly functional hole.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to start to pull him into the hole.
Marisha: Let's wrap him in his cloth.
Sam: That's a good idea. We certainly can't carry it anymore; it's very impractical.
Marisha: It was impractical the moment he bought it.
Sam: Absolutely. It's a terrible purchase.
Ashly: I step back and look away to give them privacy.
Matt: Okay. As you guys carefully and respectfully take the tapestry of the Platinum Dragon, Bahamut, and use it to wrap him comfortably, the spell ends and the hole is complete.
Sam: Are we leaving his swords? There's one that can teleport?
Marisha: It's a pretty awesome sword, from what I remember.
Sam: Sure is.
Liam: I grab some paper out of my bag and I start writing a note to Mollymauk, telling him to find us through The Gentleman.
Marisha: That's a good idea.
Sam: Tell him his name, too. Or, ooh! We can make one up.
Marisha: (laughs) Mollymauk's pretty unique and different. It's a good name.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: I take the swords.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Or, at least, is there one fancy one and one basic one?
Matt: I mean, they're both pretty fancy, but one of them is a brass, gold color. It's the one that you had found not too long ago.
Sam: That's the one.
Matt: The Summer's Dance.
Marisha: Yeah, we'll take that one. Summer's Dance. We'll give it back to him if he comes back to us.
Sam: It's a loan! It's a loan.
Marisha: Well, and also, there might be grave robbers.
Sam: Yeah, fuck those guys, right?
Marisha: Looters, yeah.
Liam: I take that note and I stick it into the lapel of the folds of his clothes, and I brush the hair out of his face, and then I start to push soil back over the body.
Marisha: I help him.
Sam: Should we say some words or anything?
Marisha: Pour a drink?
Sam: Sure. I'll pour drinks.
Marisha: Long may he reign.
Sam: Long may he reign.
Marisha: That's the best fucking shit I got.
Liam: Shine bright, circus man.
Sam: I think you're supposed to say things about how good they were and how many people loved them, and what a wonderful life they had, but I don't think any of those things are true, or at least we don't-- I don't think he even knew.
Liam: Caleb sighs and takes a five-foot, six-foot sturdy branch, one that could be a walking stick, and I take that stone-- that lucky rock that I found-- and I start to hammer the branch into the ground so it is sticking up like a post, and then hang Mollymauk's coat from it.
Sam: That'll be stolen, though.
Liam: Not right away. If he comes up out of the ground, it will be here waiting for him in a day or two.
Marisha: Maybe you should write another note and leave it on the coat that says, "Don't fucking steal this, you fucking looter assholes. Dead guy's buried here."
Liam: I think we will just leave the coat, Beauregard.
Marisha: I feel like a note could be very convincing, but that's fair. All right, let's go.
Sam: Go after them?
Liam: Well, we do not have to decide what we are going to do right away. We could have an opportunity, grab our friends. We don't need to rush into the lion's den. Let's see what we are looking at, what we are dealing with. We get our three friends back. We have not traveled with them this far to throw it away.
Sam: To throw what away? I want to hear you say it. Why do you want to go after them?
Liam: Their deaths would be a waste.
Sam: Wrong. Why?
Liam: Caleb storms off into the woods.
Marisha: Keg.
Ashly: Beau?
Marisha: Thank you.
Ashly: For what?
Marisha: I think we all would have been dead back there had you not made your offer, which you didn't have to do. It's noted.
Ashly: A bit too little, too late, but sure, yeah.
Marisha: What was your friend's name?
Ashly: Yuto.
Marisha: No more running. For Molly and Yuto. Deal?
Ashly: Deal.
Sam: If you run, we'll kill you.
Ashly: That's fair.
Sam: Cool.
Ashly: Bad time to ask for a drink?
Marisha: Never a bad time.
Sam: You deserve it.
Matt: Caleb, you've stormed off, a bit around the way to the little bit of scrub and a few trees off to the side, where the horses are set. There's a new horse standing there, one that wasn't with the rest of your trio.
Marisha: It's a spy!
Matt: Medium brown in color.
Marisha: Kill it!
Sam: (cooing)
Liam: I'm in the open right now with the horses, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. It's looking right at you.
Liam: The horse is? There's no person around?
Matt: No other person that you see, no.
Liam: I walk up to the front of the horse.
Matt: It clomps up, meeting your step with each step you take.
Liam: Oh. Who are you, Freund?
Matt: Its outer shoulders and well-traveled, muscled body begins to shift and change before you. Its form in some ways pulls in, others extend outward. Sumalee, if you'd like to join us at the table, please. (cheering)
Sam: You said "Sumalee," not "So Molly," right?
Matt: Right.
Marisha: That's so Molly.
Matt: Welcome!
Liam: Hi, welcome!
Ashly: Hi, Sumalee!
Sam: Wow! You have to do a Mr. Ed voice.
Matt: Make sure you scoot in enough for the camera, there.
Sumalee: Okay.
Marisha: We're jumping in a bouncy funhouse over here! We're having a grand old time!
Ashly: Oh, it's just been a laugh!
Marisha: Just so great!
Matt: If you'd like to describe what Caleb sees as the horse is no more, and there's now a person standing before him.
Sumalee: I'm a firbolg. I've shifted into about a seven-and-a-half-foot tall firbolg. I weigh about 200 pounds, and I'm wearing some Mongolian-inspired, almost like a shepherd. I have a round face, a wide nose. No pointy ears, though. My ears are soft, and floppy. I stand tall, strong. My shoulders droop a little forward. I'm looking with big, round eyes at all of you.
Liam: Hey, that's a pretty good trick.
Sumalee: Thank you.
Liam: You're out for a stroll?
Sumalee: I've been watching you.
Liam: Oh, gut. How long have you-- You are very tall.
Sumalee: Not for my clan. I am just average.
Liam: Ja. Okay. Did you see everything that happened in here in the last 20 minutes or so?
Sumalee: I am sorry for your loss.
Liam: Hey guys, we have a visitor!
Marisha: I thought you were talking to yourself again.
Ashly: What kind of visitor?
Matt: You glance over and you see the extremely tall female form of this firbolg; humanoid with a face that comes to a deer-like shape to the front, floppy ears, looming over, looking right at Caleb, who's taking a step back and looking up towards her.
Ashly: Holy shit.
Marisha: Oh.
Liam: Um.
Sam: Hi.
Sumalee: Hello.
Sam: Ah!
Ashly: You all right, Caleb?
Liam: Yes, I just was not expe-- you know, we've been through-- It's been a long day.
Marisha: Yeah, you're not like a shared hallucination, right?
Sumalee: No, I assure you, I am not.
Liam: You don't have any holy abilities, by any chance?
Sumalee: I do not know this word "holy," but I have abilities, which I might like to share with you.
Liam: Well, if you've been watching, we have just buried a friend of ours, maybe we were premature. Should we go dig him up?
Sam: Can you bring dead people back to life?
Sumalee: No, I'm sorry.
Liam: That's a stupid question from me, I apologize.
Sam: It was worth a shot, right? I mean. You would have kicked yourself if you hadn't asked and later she was like, "Oh yeah, by the way."
Liam: She probably would have offered though, you know.
Marisha: We ran into a tribe on the way here, you wouldn't happen to know an older woman named Jumnda would you?
Sumalee: Yes. She is my elder.
Sam: They all know each other, I knew it!
Marisha: Nott, that's--
Sam: Do you know Pumat Sol?
Sumalee: No.
Marisha: (laughing) You're terrible.
Sumalee: What did Jumnda say?
Marisha: She said a strong woman on a mission to go find her son, part of her clan, was heading north. Would you happen to be Nila? Or is it Ny-la? Am I pronouncing that right?
Sam: It was Nila.
Marisha: It was Nila? Nila.
Sumalee: You had it right the first time.
Marisha: Nailed it.
Sumalee: I am Nila. It is nice to meet you all.
Sam: It's nice to meet you too.
Marisha: It's nice to meet you.
Sam: We met your friends. Family? Tribe? Clan?
Sumalee: All of those work. (laughter)
Sam: They told us that you're trying to find the same people we are. I think? You're trying to find these folks who kidnapped someone who you know?
Sumalee: I wasn't sure if I could trust you, but seeing as how I saw what you went through, I could use a little help too.
Liam: Ja, how are you feeling about your chances now, after watching the bloodbath?
Sumalee: I think I might have some abilities that can help, but I knew I could not do it alone, and I saw you have abilities, too.
Marisha: On our good days.
Ashly: What abilities are you talking about?
Liam: She was a horse a moment ago.
Ashly: What?! You buried the lede there, Caleb! (laughter)
Sumalee: Did you not get that?
Ashly: No! I thought Caleb-- I mean, he kind of talks to himself.
Sumalee: Right. I forgot. I was a horse.
Sam: So we have an extra horse!
Sumalee: I can make other animal shapes, too.
Sam: Ooh! Caleb can turn his cat into a bird!
Sumalee: Wow!
Liam: It is a little trick. Can you turn yourself into anything dangerous?
Sumalee: I think the most dangerous I can be is a crocodile.
Marisha: That's pretty dangerous.
Sam: We fought those. One almost killed me.
Ashly: Not the same crocodile, right?
Sam: Was it you?
Sumalee: No! I never leave. This is the first time I've left my family.
Liam: Have you ever been in a fight?
Sumalee: Not really.
Ashly: Oh, great.
Sumalee: But I have other abilities that I might be able to use to help! There's one in particular that I want to use against these evil people.
Sam: You can curse in front of us if you need to, I mean.
Sumalee: What is this "cursing?"
Ashly: Oh god.
Sam: I think you'll pick it up if you hang around us for more than an afternoon.
Sumalee: Anyway, I have some abilities that I'd like to use on these bad people.
Ashly: Killing abilities?
Sumalee: Yes.
Ashly: Are you willing to kill?
Sumalee: Yes.
Ashly: Can you say the word "fuck" for me?
Sumalee: I do not know what it means, but "fuck."
Ashly: Great, all right. Well, she's got a little bit of edge.
Marisha: I like her. I like her a lot.
Sam: Hardcore.
Sumalee: You do not understand what they did to my family. I am ready now.
Sam: Please tell us. I mean, if it's not horribly awful to tell.
Sumalee: I just want to say that I'm ready. I'm ready to do things that I've never done before. To use my abilities to get my son back.
Sam: Son?
Ashly: I know I'm the proven coward of this group, but do we want an untested horse-person coming with us?
Sumalee: Why would you not?
Ashly: You saw the fight, right, lady?
Sumalee: Yes. I can help.
Ashly: It's up to you guys. It's your funeral.
Sam: Your son has been captured?
Sumalee: And my partner. Jumnda, the lady you ran into, my elder, she told me not to come, not to leave. "Accept nature's fate," she said. But I cannot. I have been kind and peaceful and to myself many years. No more. You need me and I cannot do this alone.
Ashly: Need you?
Marisha: She's kind of right.
Liam: Hey, over there is a tree stump on the side of the road. That's the bald one. What do you do?
Marisha: Show us.
Sumalee: I will tell you because I cannot do it all the time, but when I am ready, I will summon lightning from the sky and fry him, destroy him! And I can do it again and again and again!
Liam: That sounds good.
Marisha: That sounds great.
Sam: We'd appreciate that.
Ashly: So moving?
Marisha: Holy shit.
Liam: What time of the day is it?
Matt: It's early morning.
Sam: Metal o'clock.
Matt: Apparently!
Liam: The fight was in the early morning.
Matt: The fight was right at dawn.
Liam: Right, okay.
Matt: It's maybe an hour after sunrise at this point, and the sky is still mostly clouded and becoming lighter. The flurry is coming closer, there is a gentle snowfall coming down at this early hour.
Sumalee: I can do the lightning trick any time of day.
Ashly: That's good to know.
Marisha: Yeah, good for me.
Sam: Do you drink? Alcohol? Booze?
Sumalee: There are some tree saps, when left for a long time, they have a funny taste to them. Sometimes I taste that, but--
Sam: Okay, more for us.
Ashly: Better not.
Liam: Can I borrow your flask, please?
Sam: Yeah, sure, here.
Sumalee: So we will join together.
Sam: If you're going after your son, I trust you 100%. What was his name?
Sumalee: Asar.
Liam: How old is your boy?
Sumalee: He's only five.
Ashly: Jesus.
Sam: Maybe that's fully grown for a firbolg?
Sumalee: No.
Sam: Okay. It was worth a shot.
Ashly: Good thinking.
Marisha: All right. We should keep heading on to Shadycreek then.
Sam: Yes, we should.
Ashly: Anything else you want to, I don't know, do for your friend?
Sam: Oh.
Marisha: No.
Ashly: All right.
Sumalee: May I suggest something? When someone dies in my clan, we know that their spirit never leaves. It just gets returned to nature, which is why we protect nature so fiercely. I have lost people before. I find ways to see them in nature. Sometimes the leaves on the trees-- I pick one leaf and I know that it is a spirit waving to me. Your friend is here. He has not left.
Sam: That is very lovely.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to go start mounting up the horses.
Matt: You gather the last of your things, retrieve the horses, and head out.
Ashly: I'll lead the horses, since I know where I'm going.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Yeah, we have three horses-- oh wait, you had one too. Wait, did you? No, you were on foot. We had three left.
Matt: Yeah, you had three left after the previous battle.
Ashly: I have to ride on one by myself.
Matt: Correct. You guys can double up.
Marisha: Yeah, it was you two doubled up and I had one.
Sam: You are probably going to have to share-- Do you have a horse?
Sumalee: I can be a horse.
Sam: Oh, you are a horse! Of course.
Sumalee: I can turn into a horse once more. But if I do, I think that is the last time I can do it today.
Matt: Until you take a rest.
Sumalee: Until my next rest.
Liam: Horse nap.
Matt: As you guys gather up onto your horses, Keg takes the lead and you all begin your trek northward once more. Both memory of Mollymauk behind you on one shoulder, and the image of the face of your vengeance before you. You continue on your journey for the next hour or so before you catch a glance, Keg, at the road above. You see three shapes in the road.
Ashly: Can I perception check it?
Matt: Perception check.
Ashly: That's a 13.
Matt: 13? You get a little closer and you look and it looks to be three figures that are left in the road. People left in the road.
Ashly: Dead?
Matt: Not moving.
Ashly: Guys, there's something in the road.
Marisha: Oh, fuck.
Ashly: I can't tell if they are dead from here.
Liam: I send Frumpkin up into the air as an owl.
Matt: Swoops down and does a few loops over it and within a moment of scanning, can see it is three bodies. A human man appears to be in his forties, a younger half-elven man in his twenties, and a young human woman, probably in her twenties, early thirties or so. They are all slain, but there is no sign of traumatic wounds or any damage to their body, though they are damp.
Ashly: Damp?
Matt: Damp.
Marisha: Is it snowing-- Is there snow on the ground?
Matt: There is snow on the ground. You can see there's bits that are gathered on them.
Ashly: Why would they just be left in the road?
Sam: Caleb has told us all of this?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: I am going to scout up ahead and see if I recognize them.
Matt: Okay, make a medicine check for one thing as you glance at the bodies.
Sam: 12, plus zero.
Matt: Not too bad. You recognize the man as the one you saw in the cage before you, and at a quick glance you can see elements of flash frostbite on parts of their skin. You gather they are probably the ones that were in the cage in front of you.
Marisha: Does it look like they tried to escape the cage?
Sam: They were dead when the frost blast hit everybody.
Marisha: Then they dumped the bodies.
Ashly: Well given that he left them in the middle of the road-- think this is his second warning? Third? Fourth?
Sam: Or maybe he just wanted to move fast without extra weight.
Marisha: I think he just cares that little for human life.
Sam: Well, we'll cut out their tongues for food and then bury them?
Ashly: Nott, with the fucking tongues again, my man.
Sam: What, it's protein.
Ashly: Look, I know you're weird, but if you could tone it down just a skosh.
Sam: You don't have to watch.
Ashly: I'll hear it. You're so loud.
Sam: Fine.
Liam: I'm pulling the first of the three off the road to the side.
Ashly: I help.
Marisha: I'll help.
Matt: You manage to pull the bodies off the road into the grasses on the side.
Ashly: Nott!
Sam: Don't worry. There's other tongues in the sea. (laughter)
Matt: You do know, Keg, looking at the road, you're about at the point where you diverge from the path to follow up the road but continue on to Nogvurot, but to head to the Quannah Breach, and eventually Shadycreek Run, is due north from where you stand.
Ashly: Do I know of any ways to not go through the front gates? Is there any sort of circumventing I could do?
Matt: Unfortunately, not without adding another week or so travel through the mountains.
Ashly: Ugh, okay. Never mind, then.
Matt: It's possible, but it's a treacherous journey to move through the Dunrock Mountains to get there.
Sam: When we arrive, they may have left word to look out for us. They know what we look like. We should have some sort of disguise. I know that you and I can disguise ourselves. You can--
Sumalee: I can too.
Ashly: Beau and I are SOL.
Marisha: Yeah. I have my cool reversible cloak.
Sumalee: I can make you disappear for a while.
Ashly: That would probably be good. How long?
Sumalee: One hour.
Ashly: How long does it take to get to Shadycreek?
Matt: From where you are now, it's a little under two days travel.
Sam: When we get to the gates, we could maybe just--
Ashly: Slip in.
Matt: You do know that just beyond the Breach, there is a gate that is guarded by one of the families of the tribes. There is a toll that's taken as you pass through.
Ashly: Okay. That would probably be a good idea.
Sumalee: I can do that.
Ashly: Thanks.
Sam: For you, we'll find a fake mustache or something?
Liam: Are you able to do just one person?
Sumalee: No, I think I'm able to do--
Liam: Could you do the whole group?
Sumalee: Yes, I can, right?
Sam: Right, God? (laughter)
Marisha: Is it Pass Without a Trace you're looking at?
Matt: That can help them hide if they want.
Marisha: Yes, so as long as we stay within 30 feet of you, we get plus ten to our stealth bonus, which would be very helpful.
Sam: We don't turn invisible.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: If anybody wants to hide, it does help out.
Sam: You guys could hide under the horses or something.
Ashly: Okay.
Marisha: That's badass. I like that.
Matt: Keg leading on to the north, you diverge from the Glory Run Road, heading into the high grasses of the North Marrow Valley. You continue on for the better part of the day, taking breaks as necessary, and for you to recover your forms. You continue pushing on-- not at a breakneck pace for fear of catching up to your quarry, but enough where you know at least you are keeping pace. Eventually the light of the sky begins to grow dim as the evening calls to you, at which point the flurry has come. The snow begins to get heavier, the darkness is darker than normal at dusk and the air gets bitter cold. What do you wish to do to set camp?
Sam: Do we still have the tents? Did we keep the tents? We have the tents.
Liam: We've taken everything, yeah.
Ashly: Can I see through the dark with my night vision?
Matt: You can see up to a 60-foot distance I believe, and it's a dim light.
Ashly: Are there any structures around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Ashly: 19.
Matt: Pretty decent. The hills here-- you don't see any structures per se, but if you take a moment to walk around, you do see one hill that has a bank that is eroded, and there is a bit of an outcropping that may be about three or four feet outward. If you were to all crowd in, it might be able to prevent piercing wind and/or continuous snowfall, but it would be pretty cozy.
Ashly: Do you guys feel like cuddling?
Marisha: Share body heat, keeps us warmer.
Liam: Ugh.
Ashly: I'll keep watch. I'm kind of wide, so you'll have more room.
Sam: Okay. Let's cuddle.
Matt: You guys gather up here on the underside of this outcropping of the hill. Who's taking first watch? You, Keg? Make a perception check for your watch, please.
Marisha: Beau tries to get a spot next to Nila because she's large and fuzzy.
Ashly: 15.
Matt: Looking out towards the distance, as everyone else is silently sleeping in a cuddled, spoon-like position at times, you glance out and see a few shapes moving past. You see a few stars blink out as shadows move past. You quietly lean forward and begin to inspect and your eyes focus at the outset of your darkvision. You notice a small set of goats that are roving the plain, making their way. The snow is falling and they're trying to find themselves to warmer climate.
Liam: Were-goats.
Matt: You don't know that. ASHLY. Dangerous, violent were-goats.
Matt: You don't find any other threat or anything during your watch. Next watch?
Marisha: I'll take it.
Matt: Beau, make a perception check.
Marisha: Six total.
Matt: Everything seems pretty kosher.
Marisha: I'm a little zoned out.
Matt: During your watch is when the heavy part of the storm begins to hit. No thunder. It's just very cold and you can see your breath, and you're having to involuntarily shiver as the cold kicks in. You can see now the snow piling up and you're thankful, at this moment, that you found this outcropping in Keg's vision, because the distant hills that are open are now heavily piling with this soft, powdered snow. It's starting to fall and the wind is pushing through and some of it's hitting the left side of your face. It's starting to go a little numb and you have to brush it off every now and then and try to do your best to dry up the biting cold water that is melting against your cheek. Nevertheless, your watch comes to an end without an issue. Who wants to take the final watch?
Sam: I will.
Liam: You and me, goblina.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Make a perception check for me, please?
Sam: Oh boy. Four.
Matt: Well, you're lucky, because nothing of note happens during your watch. You are nervously keeping your eyes out, just in case, waiting for another reverse ambush, but nothing seems to catch your attention. As the morning comes to, because you guys managed to cuddle, I would like you all to make a constitution saving throw with advantage, please.
Sam: Cuddle-vantage!
Marisha: Cuddle-vantage!
Ashly: Cuddle-vantage!
Ashly: Oh, both terrible.
Sam: Both for me, too.
Sam: I rolled a two and a two, so four.
Marisha: Is this a saving throw or just a check?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Sam: I do have my winter clothes. I bought them. Just laying that out.
Matt: I'll say the winter clothes and the closeness of the group-- sure. I'll say you've avoided, in your hearty goblin form-- You're used to rough weather, anyway.
Liam: Sam, you're bonier than Gollum.
Matt: Keg, in full metal armor, not so much.
Ashly: I add my modifier though, yes?
Matt: You do add your modifier.
Ashly: Then it's actually 15.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. You shrug it off without issue.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Caleb, your warm coat keeps you warm.
Liam: Hearty German living.
Matt: Exactly. You're used to these Zemnian nights.
Marisha: 12.
Matt: That's enough to withstand it, not a problem.
Sumalee: 21.
Matt: While the forest definitely keeps insulation to the storm, your body is well suited for extreme weather as well. Actually-- tricksy winter clothes, but you got it.
Sam: No, you can--
Matt: No, you got them for a reason. That's what they're there for. Because of the body heat and everything, I'll allow it.
Liam: You're like the little kid in A Christmas Story, "I can't put my arms down!"
Marisha: So cute.
Matt: As you guys continue your trek northward for the next day, you slowly push forward and watch as the rolling hills of this northern valley begin to even out. The high grasses growing dense and dusted with snow in the wake of this snowstorm that has passed through the night. It's now this beautiful, ice topped wonderland before you. As the storm is past, breaks in the clouds begin to slowly emerge and show you glimmers of blue in the sky. With sunlight comes a welcome comparative warmth, and this dusted field of diamonds begins to slowly thaw over the midday's journey. The looming peaks of the Dunrock mountain range approach closer, engulfing your horizon almost like a toothy jaw of some ancient titan that surrounds your peripheral. You can make out, as you get closer, the craggy break in the mountains ahead, familiar to you. It's like a spiral fracture of a bone, where suddenly what was once a solid mountain range seems to have torn and sundered into two separate ravines that seem to share a similar shape. This you recognize as the Quannah Breach. You guys begin to approach, by mid to late afternoon, the front of the breach, where you can see six crownsguard in a small outpost built at the base of the Quannah Breach. These, as you know, are usually folks that essentially warn people from traveling into the Breach, and if they do, let them know that any return is going to be probably highly searched and highly inquired. They enforce it, unless you slip them some coin. Then it's not an issue on the way back. They're more there to make money.
Ashly: For appearances, yeah.
Matt: As you approach, familiar to you, a crownsguard begins to put a hand up to the approaching horses and say, "Hail!"
Ashly: Oh, goddamn it.
Matt: "Where are you traveling to?"
Ashly: Shadycreek.
Matt: "You have business in these cursed lands?"
Ashly: Yeah, we're trying to get fucked. Can we move along?
Matt: "Well, your life is your own, as is your business, but you must understand that coming back is no easy task. A thorough search and inquiry into your person will be required--"
Ashly: Yeah, blah, blah, blah. Can I give you a couple of coins and you let us on our way, please?
Matt: "Very well." How much do you give him?
Ashly: How little will he take?
Matt: Customary to your experience and the times that you've traveled with the Iron Shepherds, it's usually about two gold to just pass.
Ashly: Okay, yeah.
Matt: He takes it and quietly lets you pass. Per person.
Sam: Molly would want us to do this trip, maybe Molly should pay.
Marisha: Yeah, Molly pays the toll.
Sam: Thank you, Molly.
Marisha: Two, four, six, eight, ten. Love you, Taliesin.
Matt: Well, eight, because she pays herself.
Sam: Yeah, Molly wouldn't want to pay for Keg.
Sumalee: Thank you.
Ashly: As he shouldn't.
Sumalee: I have gold pieces I can use later, too, if you want them.
Ashly: You're not going to want to spend any of that in Shadycreek Run. There's nothing there for you.
Sam: Why, they don't take money? Oh.
Ashly: It's just not a nice place.
Sam: When you're home with your people, are you one of the nicer ones, or are you a bad girl at home? What's your-- how does it--
Sumalee: I don't know. I am one of the ones that-- not too many people rely on me.
Sam: They don't rely on you?
Sumalee: No.
Sam: Why?
Sumalee: I think I am-- There was always some firbolg that was more powerful, stronger, smarter. More capable. Eventually I grew to accept being myself, and I prefer to support rather than be a leader. This is my first time trying to be more than who I am.
Ashly: Keg does one of these to her in support.
Sumalee: I do not know what that is, but I like it. And I heard you use the word "fuck" again.
Marisha: You know, maybe people don't rely on you because you haven't been given the chance yet. We're certainly going to rely on you.
Sumalee: That makes me happy.
Marisha: It'll be a good test run, at least, for you. Then you can go back to your tribe and be like, "Yo, people relied on me!"
Ashly: "It was dope!"
Marisha: "It was great, you should rely on me more!"
Ashly: "It was super tight!"
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashly: Yeah.
Marisha: I don't know. They probably won't sound like that.
Liam: I kick my horse along.
Matt: As you travel through these winding ravines, choosing the one to the right, which you know to be the wider of the two, the low howl of the wind that's traversing these sheared twisted walls, like a haunting, whistling, and moan sound. It accompanies the brush growing more dense. The air grows colder still, as white banks of snow and ice frame various ledges and outcroppings along these strangely curved and smoothly sheared cliffsides. It feels like a giant had grabbed a mountain range and tore it in two and there's an even break on each side. It winds and curves. It's like a natural labyrinth. A few miles through this strange maze, you're met with a makeshift wall and a ten-foot wooden gate. Your eyes, at first, notice a few dozen wooden poles carved into spikes that emerge from the ground, pointed in your direction from the base, many of which are stained dark while others still bear the weathered skulls of warning. Three armored folk stand there; two human men and a half-orc woman all bearing weapons and watching you carefully as you approach.
Ashly: This isn't the gate, right?
Matt: This is the gate.
Ashly: Oh, it is?
Matt: You've reached the edge of the Quannah Breach and turned to the final bastion outside of the Empire.
Ashly: But it's not the gate into Shadycreek Run.
Matt: It's the gate into the region of Shadycreek Run.
Sam: This is the gate we need to hide in?
Matt: This is.
Ashly: But they see us?
Matt: Well, they've noticed you begin to turn and approach--
Sam: Quick, hide! Hide, quick!
Matt: You would know this is coming because you've traveled this before.
Ashly: Okay, so we wouldn't have turned the corner.
Matt: I'm describing it as you-- or you're describing it as you're about to turn the corner.
Ashly: Okay.
Liam: Rewind the tape just a little bit.
Ashly: (rewinds) So!
Sam: So that's just literally around this corner?
Ashly: Just right around-- If we went even just a few feet that way, whoo whee! Guards, big old gate. It would have been-- oh, man.
Liam: We were going at a pretty good pace there.
Ashly: You guys are lucky that I stopped just a few feet right before we would have all seen the gate. You're welcome. You know, I'm really earning my keep here. So!
Sam: So hide! Or something, right?
Ashly: The plan was you guys can make yourselves look different?
Sam: Yes.
Ashly: Then you're going to make us invisible and then you're going to be a horse?
Sumalee: I can do that.
Ashly: I'll get used to that eventually. Okay. Cool.
Marisha: You guys are going to have three horses and then two riders.
Ashly: Do we have stuff to put on the third horse to make it look like a pack?
Liam: Yeah. We could just take everything off our horses and gather it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah?
Ashly: Yeah.
Marisha: We'll hide under the horse like Indiana Jones-style, basically? Holding on underneath? Okay, that's going to take some grip strength, but I'm into it.
Sam: Wait! Maybe if one of our horses is a pack horse, you could be on top of the horse wrapped in a blanket or something. You're part of the gear that the horse is carrying.
Marisha: Do they search you on the way in?
Sam: Oh.
Ashly: Do they search us on the way in?
Matt: Depends on if you pay them on the way through.
Ashly: We'll have to pay them.
Sam: We can pay.
Ashly: Yeah. I think this one's a little bit more expensive, though. Isn't it? Probably. The deeper we get in? Or is it the same?
Matt: You know that the previous gate-- Generally you don't have to pay them, the one you entered? It just helps you with "no questions asked" issue. This is the gate run by the Uteloch family of the tribes and they enforce it both as a means of making money and to know who's coming and going.
Ashly: Mm-hmm. Okay.
Matt: So it's an equal price to what you were paying previously.
Ashly: We should definitely pay it, though.
Sam: Which plan do we want? You hiding under the horses or you hiding on the horse as suitcases?
Ashly: I can hide under the horse.
Marisha: I'll hide as suitcase. I'll be a bundle.
Liam: We lie you over the horse and we put a bunch of shit on top of you, yeah?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Then you are going to do some sort of horse magic that makes us-- sorry, I'm unclear. Invisible or--?
Marisha: More stealthy.
Sumalee: You are invisible to people. To others.
Sam: I believe that.
Sumalee: You don't have to change shape.
Ashly: It might be helpful so there's not--
Sam: You can make us totally invisible.
Sumalee: I think so!
Marisha: You give us a bonus to our stealth.
Sam: Ask your god.
Liam: You cannot.
Sumalee: Aw.
Liam: But what you can do, it's still useful here.
Marisha: Is it makes us more hideable.
Liam: If the people who are hiding try to look like-- covered in cloth and shit and try to look like cloth--
Sumalee: It'll pass.
Liam: You can make it more believable.
Marisha: You know the blanket in Lord of the Rings?
Sumalee: Yes.
Marisha: The cloak--
Sumalee: On the raft.
Marisha: It's like that.
Sumalee: Got it. I will turn the blankets into--
Marisha: Rocky things. Sounds good.
Liam: This whole pow wow was happening around the bend.
Ashly: Guards are like--
Sumalee: Wait, what happens after we get through, though?
Sam: Then we can do whatever we want.
Liam: No, we keep going for a while--
Ashly: It will be a little bit of a ride.
Liam: Keep up appearances. Yeah? You're going carry these two. They're both going to lie on top of your horseback.
Ashly: I can't be on a horse. Just me. I'm too heavy.
Liam: Too heavy?
Ashly: I'll break her. Right? Because I can't--
Matt: A single horse you can do.
Ashly: A single horse I could be on. It couldn't be me and Beau. Or me and one of you.
Liam: She's like all sticks, though.
Matt: With Beau it's possible. Not at a full run, but at a travel journey, you could probably do it.
Marisha: Or I could be a pack on one of your guys' horse.
Liam: She could be on our horse.
Sam: Yes, yes.
Liam: Because you and I are skin and bones.
Ashly: I'll be on top of you, if that's okay.
Sumalee: That's fine.
Ashly: Okay.
Sumalee: And I will make you Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: In this shady ravine, just as it comes to an end before entering this next valley, the shadows seem to coalesce and cling to you and where previously the light itself is shaded and dim. It's almost like you're stepping through moonlight.
Marisha: Almost like?
Matt: Well, meaning like looking at those of you in the radius, it's like it's nighttime where you're standing. The shadows are heavier. The blacks are crushed.
Ashly: We've both got stuff on top of us to make us look like--
Marisha: Mm-hmm. I'm wrapped in a bedroll.
Liam: Ja I mutter a few words and suddenly look like an old coot with a band of hair around the sides and my jaw is off to the side a bit and it's missing a few teeth and very squinty. That's me.
Matt: Like Robert Duvall, good.
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Sam: I will mutter a few words and turn into--
Ashly: What was this drawing back here?
Sam: Oh, which one?
Ashly: Penis man.
Liam: Stop the game! What's the drawing? Hold it up.
Ashly: Sorry, out of character. Excuse me.
Liam: Let's see!
Sam: It's a dick man with a drink. (laughter)
Sam: It was a me and Laura collab.
Liam: Somebody was talking, having a moment. Then you draw a dick man.
Sam: I'll make myself look like Rissa.
Matt: Okay, perfect.
Sam: Because I know that one.
Liam: Rissa and Robert Duvall.
Matt: Those of you who are trying to be inconspicuous, which would be Beau and Keg, go ahead and make general stealth checks.
Marisha: Plus ten, right?
Ashly: Come on, baby. That's not great. Nine.
Marisha: Add ten to your roll your plus stealth.
Ashly: Oh, 19.
Matt: That is what the spell does.
Ashly: I see.
Marisha: It's not good for me either. 21 with the buff.
Sam: Thank god for the buff.
Ashly: Woo!
Matt: Okay, as you guys turn the corner, you now see the gate and the spikes and the warning skulls and everything.
Sam: It's not as good as you described it.
Ashly: I don't know a lot of adjectives. I'm not a great storyteller. I said it's a gate and there are people there. What else do you need to know? You need the fucking colors and the designs.
Sam: You had smells and you had shapes and everything, but this is--
Liam: Shut the fuck up!
Matt: As you approach, the half-orc steps forward and goes, "Hey, you! Where you headed today?"
Sam: Shadycreek Run.
Matt: "Well, you pass through the breach, you pay the toll."
Sam: All right.
Liam: Yes, we have that.
Matt: "Good. Pay up."
Sam: How much?
Matt: "Two gold each."
Liam: Oh yeah. Okay.
Sam: You know what? I'll get it. Don't even look. I got this one. Here you go, four from me.
Marisha: Yeah, that's good.
Matt: "All right. Let them in!" She steps back in line with the two other they pull the two gates and pull open as the wood clacks against the sides of the gates. You all make your way through as the guards watch as you pass in. For a nervous moment, you see the eyes pass over the two other riders, but make no issue as you continue inward. You hear the gates (clunking) behind you. Now, looking ahead, you can see the curvature of the ravine opens up into a widening valley. You see a limitless forest of climbing pines, spruce-like trees, only the common green you expect stands instead an unexpected purple-gray in color. This wide blanket before you of this deep valley of fading purple and gray color at the tops of theses trees. Along the tree line, you can see a sprawling and matted line of snow-capped buildings, hovels, and mud-covered streets that vanish into this dense forest. The city does not keep the normal cohesive shape of most, instead being a long line built along the tree edge and some sort of river or creek that it has been constructed against. It is a weird, crooked, long town that vanishes into the branches and leaves. You're no longer within the Dwendalian Empire. Welcome to the Greying Wildlands.
Sam: The Greying Wildlands.
Matt: And to the lawless town of Shadycreek Run. Anything you wish to do before you head to the city proper?
Ashly: We're still obscured, Beau and I?
Matt: Obscured in the sense that you're inconspicuous in dress.
Ashly: Right, but that's still happening? That spell is for an hour? Okay.
Liam: Do you have any place where we can lay up?
Ashly: There are two places I would recommend. There is this place called the Plaza Emporium. A pleasant but can be murderous dragonborn runs that. She's not affiliated with any of the unseemly folks directly, so she's a bit more neutral. We might be able to get information from her.
Liam: Does she murder everybody or does--
Ashly: Only people who piss her off, so be on your best behavior. The Landlocked Lady is a brothel. We might want to cover Nila's eyes. It's run by the Marduns, who happen to be--
Sam: That's who we're looking for.
Ashly: And they are the rival family of the folks that employ the Iron Shepherds.
Sam: That seems like where we should go, because the Iron Sheps won't be there to poke around and find us.
Liam: That is correct.
Marisha: What is the name of that place again?
Ashly: The Landlocked Lady.
Liam: The Landlocked Lady.
Sam: The Landlocked Lady.
Ashly: The proprietor is kind of a skeeze ball, as you would imagine. Not necessarily the most trustworthy guy, but it is run by the Marduns. So of the safe places in the town, that's probably up there.
Liam: Are you still laying across the back of a horse or have you pulled yourself up?
Ashly: I have a little opening that I made for myself. (laughter)
Ashly: It's just my face with a cigarette still.
Matt: This little--
Sam: Our horse is smoking.
Marisha: Amazing.
Sam: I vote Landlocked Lady.
Liam: Of course.
Marisha: (muffled) I agree.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Lead us there with smoke signals.
Ashly: That way.
Matt: A short ride you eventually hit the outside of this township. Walking into the main street, you can see they're slick with mud and dirty snow. Ragged peasants clutter the alleyways, looking your way with hands extended for some sort of alms they're hoping to find.
Liam: (spits)
Sam: Ugh, gross.
Matt: An emaciated dog growls at you from a nearby doorstep and then darts off down the road behind where you passed. A wagon appears stuck in the mud as you pass it, rough-looking folk tugging at it and stopping to stare you down as you slowly move past. They continue their work. You nearly step over someone with your horse who appears to be passed out, face down in a patch of dirty snow. A bit of crimson rests at their side. They're not moving. As you circle around them you watch as two rough-looking fellows in hide clad armor come and inspect him. As you glance over your shoulder, you watch as they rummage through his pockets, lift up his not moving body and dump him in one of the nearby alleys and keep on walking. You see no Crownsguard.
Sam: Oh man.
Matt: This is the first town any of you have been in that has no watch. No law keepers. The road doesn't go far north from where you enter as most of the town is this long stretched bar, so within 15 minutes you've hit the plaza. The central plaza to the town that you know as the Clover Plaza. You see log benches dotting the open area, while a four story tower of motley colored stones stands vigil over the area. Two balconies and a top, housing crossbow and longbow wielding roughnecks. You know these to be Taskers. You're heading towards The Landlocked Lady? Easy to see. On the eastern side of this plaza, there is a very beautiful, two story complex, that comparably seems ostentatious against the buildings immediately to the right and left of it which look to be in serious disrepair and rather rundown and colorless. Just bland woods, gray and brown. Here you can see the second story above the main archway, a curved top arch, there is a false bow of a ship that is emerging outward. This beautifully carved mermaid in the front that is clutching the piercing front of the ship. There it rests with a sign dangling from it, saying The Landlocked Lady.
Marisha: I totally get the name of the place now.
Sam: It's a consistent brand.
Marisha: It's very clever.
Liam: In Zadash, it would look like shit, but here it's the belle of the ball.
Matt: Comparably, yes.
Marisha: It seems that they don't have a strong housing code. They can get away with these more unique builds. It's very fascinating.
Sam: Sure, it's really interesting architecture.
Matt: It's like Shanghai, China; everything looks different.
Ashly: How far away are the Taskers? Did we just pass by them?
Matt: You're skirting around the outside of the main Tasker tower. They're scattered around, and as you guys are walking around, you see most of the people that live in the city are in absolute squalor and are here out of necessity, are here because they came seeking some sort of fortune and failed, or they've come to indulge in vices that have slowly crushed them. The other half of the populace are usually armored to some extent, whether it be patchwork hides, chain, leathers. Almost everyone here is armed, even on a scale of poverty there seems to be a general sense of needing protection amongst the chaos. Some folks look like they're trying not to be seen, many parade their thickened arms. You see one female, privateer looking individual, that comes through the streets and spits on somebody who's huddled by one of the stumps. Growls at them before continuing to walk on. It's a very unique and curious motley group of people that call this place home.
Ashly: If I talk to them will I be heard?
Matt: If you talk to--?
Sam: Us.
Ashly: If I talk to the crew?
Matt: No one's close enough to you, you think, if you're quiet enough.
Ashly: I point out the Tasker tower behind us and I say: Those are the Taskers. Those are probably the only other people in this shithole that might be of use.
Sam: Of use? They're good guys?
Ashly: As much as anyone's a good guy here. They try not to get-- they try to prevent the innocent from getting killed or fucked over. Obviously, they're not particularly successful, but they're not under the thumb of any particular group.
Liam: Are they altruists though or are they mercenaries?
Ashly: It's altruistic, strangely. I kind of forgot about them because we always thought they were nerds. But now I'm trying to be a little bit better. They might be helpful.
Sam: Do they have a uniform, or how do you know them? How do you know who they are, how can you identify them?
Matt: What you can tell about the Taskers is they wear chain shirts with one leather shoulder pauldron that is painted blue. I say painted blue because most of their uniform is whatever they can put together to create some sort of consistency. There is no built uniform. What you're used to seeing with Crownsguard, and any other royal military where things are built with fine craftsmanship, everything here is put together and slapdash. That one uniform mark is usually the chain shirt and the one blue shoulder armor. Some people paint it completely, some put a line on it and leave it there like a, "Fuck you, I'm not going to finish it."
Sam: They're like Hell's Angels.
Matt: Kind of. For the most part, they're keeping an eye out in the sense that they don't want complete anarchy.
Ashly: They still want money for their services, but they're slightly less assholeish than the most.
Matt: They're not going to stop someone from spitting on a peasant, but if all of a sudden a giant riot breaks out, they will break it up and beat everybody up till it stops.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: It's kind of cool.
Ashly: Closest thing to law that exists here.
Sam: Okay, thank you. (louder) Thank you, horse, for riding us this far!
Sumalee: I can't say anything, right, in my horse form? I can nod.
Liam: (horse huffing)
Matt: You do keep your mental stats in beast form. I've seen it argued back and forth, and I'm pretty sure when we had you in your elemental form last campaign, people were saying that you could still technically talk in that form.
Marisha: Yeah, but I didn't talk as animals. I wasn't talking.
Matt: That's right. You're unable to actually speak in the animal form, but you can still communicate.
Marisha: As elementals I was like  Run! Jump! Oh shit!
Sam: That's what you are like now. (laughter)
Marisha: I reverted, that's all.
Liam: Keg, if we find an alleyway to drop you out of sight of you suddenly appearing, can you walk around this town, or is that dangerous?
Ashly: In some places it's dangerous. There's a place called The Trench that the Iron Shepherds in this area always hang out in.
Sam: The Trench?
Ashly: The Trench. It's in this area. It's not a huge place, right?
Matt: It's a fairly decent sized tavern. It's one of the more populated areas.
Ashly: That's where they hang out.
Matt: Every now and then.
Liam: How stupid is it for you to walk up on open road in this place?
Ashly: I think it's probably best for me not to be.
Sam: Let's go in the brothel. We're here, right? We can stay here, or we go in here? Do I have to fuck somebody in there?
Ashly: Why are you worried about this? They would be worried about having to fuck you, my man.
Sam: I'm a lady.
Ashly: My lady. I call everyone my man.
Sam: But yes, you're right. You're right, that's a fair point.
Ashly: If any of the Marduns are there, we might be able to-- to be honest guys, there's not a lot of options, but we might be able to get some help from them. I don't know for sure. In any case, it's a place to regroup. This brothel is not in the business of spilling everybody's secrets out.
Sam: Let's go in.
Liam: Ja, one second, though. Which way from here are these Iron Chefs located?
Ashly: They're north of this, yes, Matt? The Sour Nest is?
Matt: The Sour Nest is northeast of where you are in the city. It's beyond this city, into the actual Savalierwood. About maybe two hours' travel.
Liam: Two hours' travel?
Sam: That's their headquarters, right?
Matt: Beyond the city. The northern half of the city is almost entirely within the forest itself.
Liam: Okay. In that direction?
Ashly: Yeah.
Marisha: It's in the walls of the city, or in city limits?
Matt: No, The Sour Nest is beyond the city. It's its own little stronghold that exists separate from the city itself.
Liam: Can you describe to me what it looks like? Is it noticeable?
Ashly: God? What does it look like?
Matt: It's noticeable. It's half a mansion, half a small stronghold. It has gates around it, heavy walls that have spears atop them. [wheels rolling]
Matt: Hey, you're in a town.
Sam: Yeah! The caravan just came by.
Matt: It's two story, and there's a subterranean basement floor to it. They do have hired guard that keep watch on it while they're away, and occasionally while they're there. I can eventually provide you with a layout, because you would know. You've been there a number of times. [clomping]
Sam: I love it! It's so good.
Sumalee: That's was me expressing my happiness. (laughter)
Ashly: It's up to you. We can go up there now if you want.
Liam: No, I do not want to go up there now. I was thinking of maybe sending my cat, but that can wait. Let's go into this place.
Marisha: Is it safe for me and Keg to hop out without it looking shifty?
Matt: There is an alley off to the side that if you wait for a moment for nobody watching, you guys would be able to step out.
Marisha: We do that.
Matt: You have the opportunity to revert, if you wish.
Sumalee: I actually feel safer in my animal form in this crazy place.
Sam: You're going to-- (shouting) You're going to stay in the alley while we go inside?
Sumalee: All right.
Marisha: I think horses have regular hearing.
Sam: Nope. They're mostly deaf.
Sumalee: I will shift back to my regular self. You make a good point, but this place is not making Nila happy.
Ashly: I apologize in advance for all the shit you're about to see. I open the door.
Matt: As you guys hitch the horses to one of the hitching post off to the side, you make your way into the brothel. And that's where we're going to take a break.
Sumalee: Phew. Nila's like  Thank god! Let me regroup!
Matt: We're going to take a little break here. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. The giveaway we have today, we have a Bolivian rosewood Hero Vault, with Celtic knot. It looks pretty awesome. It's magnet-based, and has your character vault. You can put your minis in it. You can put your dice in there. It's awesome. Go on and head on over to the Critical Role Twitch chat, that's twitch.tv/criticalrole during the break and enter the keyword "revenge." Only enter it once. Any more than that and you're disqualified from the giveaway.
Sam: Forever.
Matt: Forever! No, but we'll come back from the break with a winner here for you guys, and we'll see you here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back! First, we have our winner for the break. The winner is Wundur. W-U-N-D-U-R. Wundur, congratulations. Chandra will whisper you and get your information and get that sent out to you. Well done. Getting us back in. As you guys step through the archway, the double doors opening as Keg pushes and leads you inside. The first thing that hits you is a fresh smell of lavender, a vanilla incense that strikes your senses, stinging your eyes with its potency. On the inside, you can see a handful of round tables of which two patrons are currently eating a meal that has been placed before them.
Ashly: I really thought you were going to say something else.
Sam: Eating a dead body.
Matt: Possibly, or a live one. You can see candles that are placed at the center there, these fine silks have been placed. It's such a stark shift from the dreary and generally muck-covered exterior of this city, to step into what seems oppressively luxurious. Though the closer you look, everything is frayed at the edges. Everything seems to have been here for a while or seems to have been weathered through travel or use. The immediate shine begins to fade as you begin to see how much of this is probably a fair amount of work to keep the upkeep of the facade of luxury. To the left of you, you can see a carved window-like bar or a desk and there behind it you can see a human man, probably in his late 30s. His hair, very short, and the male pattern baldness is just starting to set in. You can see a bit of the shine of the back of his head begin to poke through. He has a very well kept handlebar mustache that curves out very wide to each side of his face, and a pointed Van Dyke matching beard point that comes to the bottom. He has a vest over a light green billowing shirt that has a wide collar that curves out to the sides. As you enter and take in, he immediately glances over to meet your gaze and goes, "Why hello everyone, glad you could make it. Welcome! Welcome to the Landlocked Lady. How could I be of service? Oh, you are a big one!"
Sumalee: I am.
Matt: "Wonderful, are you looking for work?"
Ashly: No, she's not.
Matt: "No worries. Well, you're here for a reason, I presume. Do tell me what do you seek? We have rooms for rent, companionship to join as well. What do you seeking?"
Marisha: We'll need all of that above and a little bit more.
Sam: Well, I mean not the companionship.
Marisha: I've had a hard week
Sam: Oh!
Marisha: What were you saying?
Ashly: Champ, right?
Matt: "Yes? Do I know you?"
Sam: Champ?
Marisha: Champ? His name's Champ!
Ashly: Maybe? His name's Champ. Told you it was a shitter! Yeah, you might know me. Hey, are your bosses around bosses around by any chance?
Matt: "My bosses?"
Ashly: The people that actually own this place, I know you like to pretend.
Matt: "Are you referring to--?"
Ashly: The Marduns.
Matt: "The Marduns are not around here today. They are at the Estate Sybaritic."
Ashly: What?
Matt: "It's their estate, its where they live."
Marisha: Sybaritic?
Liam: Sitaritic?
Matt: Sybaritic.
Ashly: Do I know where that is?
Matt: You've passed by it, you've never been there.
Ashly: Is it an insight to see if he's lying?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Ashly: Fuck! Critical one.
Matt: He's a shifty motherfucker, and you're not entirely certain he's telling the truth or not, but seems honest enough. "Lord Anselm does pass through on occasion, but he's not here today. The rest of them I'm sure are busy with their own business, but if I see any of them, I could ask, see if they're being summoned by-- what is your name?"
Ashly: It's, um--
Sam: The Mighty Nein?
Ashly: I'm trying to come up with a fake name.
Sam: Oh.
Ashly: Rick.
Marisha: Nailed it.
Ashly: Rick is my name.
Matt: Make a deception check. (laughter)
Ashly: Really? You're not going to let that slide? 19!
Sumalee: Rick it is!
Matt: Plus?
Ashly: 19, yeah.
Matt: "Rick? Very well. I'll make a note. If this is pressing business, you are more than welcome to attempt to summon them at the estate, as I know not how often they pass through, but in the meantime, you said you wished rooms and company?"
Sam: Yes, we'll need rooms for sure.
Matt: "How many?"
Ashly: Give us a second there, Champ. I don't really feel like I want to stay around this guy that much longer. Do you guys want to go to this estate, or do you want to stay here?
Sam: The estate? What would we do there?
Sumalee: I do not like this man.
Ashly: Yeah, that makes two of us, Nila. I don't know; that's where the Marduns are. You were looking for them anyway, right?
Sam: We're looking for one of their family, but we don't know enough to march up there and say, "Hey, we're looking for your daughter." We don't even know if it's a daughter, or a niece or something. I don't know.
Matt: All the information that you have from The Gentleman is that an individual named Ophelia Mardun, who is a friend of his, he sent you up to give her aid with a problem that she's having.
Sam: We don't know if she's on the outs with her family, if they're the ones who had her killed or kidnapped. We don't know anything. We'd be marching into a big question mark.
Marisha: Maybe we'll get lucky, and the problem she wants help with is the Iron Shepherds. Two birds with one stone, we win. Still going along with that plan.
Ashly: (laughs) The plan has not changed.
Marisha: Has not changed.
Ashly: It's the same plan.
Marisha: The Molly problem was a hiccup. Seems kind of cold. Anyway.
Ashly: You're working on it.
Sumalee: I have something I'd like to do now. In these moments, I have a little bag of treasures that I smell. They're little treasures that I collect along the way of things that are significant and meaningful to me. If I smell it, it tells me what the experience will be like. If we leave this man and go to this Ophelia Mardun, let me see what my smell check does. Okay?
Sam: It's like telling a fortune, but with smelling things. All right.
Marisha: That's pretty crazy.
Ashly: Is she just getting high?
Marisha: She might be.
Matt: Nila pulls up this small pouch with a leather flap on the front, and pulling it open there is, within a moment, a pungent smell that is a mixture of earthy, almost mossy scents, mixed with spice, mixed with rotted vegetation, mixed with a bad cheese. It's a plethora of smells, and they come in waves. She buries her nose into this for a second and takes a huge (sniffing).
Sumalee: Do I know what I sense, or will you tell me what I sense?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
Liam: This is what she does in brothels?
Sam: I don't know if she knows what a brothel is.
Matt: Add your wisdom modifier.
Sumalee: 17. Oh no, wait. 14.
Matt: The smell comes into you, and amongst the barrage of various smells, you catch a rosy, sweet smell that cuts through the rest.
Sumalee: Yes. We should go to see this Ophelia. It will be a good outcome.
Liam: You have had a lot of luck predicting things with this stink pouch?
Sumalee: Oh, yes. It is not stinky, though. You may smell it, if you wish.
Liam: What do I smell?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
Liam: Oh, that's pretty good. 19.
Matt: You get a faint whiff of sawdust that quickly shifts into a very old, molded, after a rain leather.
Liam: Oh, well, yes, I'm convinced. We should definitely just march up to the estate.
Ashly: Wait, I want a hit! It's not going to go well.
Sumalee: I did not know that this works for others.
Ashly: Oh yeah, it's a nine.
Matt: As you get close--
Sam: (fart noise)
Matt: You don't even get that close to it. You have a fairly strong sense of smell, and while some smells in your experiences of the world have put you aback, you can't even describe this odorous musk that hits your nostrils, causing your entire face to wrinkle and recoil.
Ashly: Never mind, I was wrong! We shouldn't go!
Matt: At this point, Champ, who has leaned forward, watching this, goes, "Out of my curiosity, I'm now invested. Might I have a sniff as well?" (laughter)
Sam: Everyone's sniffing your bag!
Sumalee: It is filled with so many wonderful things. I promise you. Wait a minute. I do not want him to smell this.
Sam: She doesn't want you to smell her bag.
Matt: "I didn't want a piece of the stink pouch anyway."
Sumalee: I'm sorry.
Sam: It's something you have to earn. Maybe tomorrow.
Sumalee: Wait, let me smell. Oh, all right. Here.
Matt: (sniffs) "No, no. Lesson learned." His eyes start watering. "Would you like a room for the night? What are your preferences?"
Sam: Maybe we should get a room or two. That way, if everything goes wrong, if we're indeed going to go to this estate, then we could at least have somewhere to crash.
Matt: "I must warn you, if it's more to a room and you require a companion, the group rates are a bit more expensive."
Ashly: He means slumber parties. If we all want to have a nice rest together, just sleeping, it's more money.
Sumalee: We have that in my clan, too. We all set up a huge nest of leaves and sleep together.
Matt: "Are you sure you're not looking for work?"
Sumalee: No.
Marisha: Maybe we shouldn't stay here. What time of day is it?
Matt: At this point, it's almost dusk. You guys have traveled the better part of your second day to even get here.
Liam: Well, perhaps we don't want to show up on these people's doorstep as the sun is going down. Why don't we spend a night here? You were looking for some companionship. You can work on that.
Sam: We can ask around. Maybe the clientele might know some things about the Sheps.
Ashly: That's not a bad idea.
Liam: Sure, we can talk to the clientele. Maybe you should hang back.
Sam: I think I fit in in this town, but they might recognize me.
Liam: How do you mean?
Sam: No, I mean, the Iron Shepherds know my face, but it seems like there's so many weirdos in this town that, I don't know. No one seemed to be looking at me funny when we walked in. Oh, wait, I was dressed as a gnome, that's why. Never mind. (laughter)
Marisha: To be fair, this isn't The Iron Shepherds' hideout, we said, right?
Liam: Yeah, that's outside of the city, into the woods.
Marisha: Seems like they wouldn't come here. Rival family.
Ashly: Is it safe to say that they keep to themselves?
Matt: For the most part, yeah. They only come into town to occasionally drink and essentially parade dominance. Every now and then checking in to assert their reputation, and if they have to do other bits of dirty work. They are slavers by normal trade, but they do other things for the Jagentoths, if need be.
Ashly: They wouldn't feel it necessary to tell anyone else about us?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. It depends on if they assume they're being chased, or they feel like the demonstration was enough, but you don't know.
Ashly: All right.
Sam: Spend the night here, then?
Liam: Yeah, I think so. We've been traveling all day. We stay here, we get up. We don't know anything about where the Shepherds-- We know nothing about their stronghold, just what you're able to tell us, but that doesn't tell us how many people are there now, what we are going to be up against. We talk to the Marduns tomorrow, figure out the next step from there.
Marisha: Yeah, let's formulate a plan in the morning. I can't think right now. I'm a little out of it.
Ashly: All right. Champ, she sleeps alone. No funny business, all right?
Matt: "Of course not. I have a business to run."
Sumalee: Thank you.
Marisha: I'll take a room for myself, please.
Matt: "All right. For a singular room rate for the night, that will be one gold, five silver."
Marisha: I arrange for companionship and drinks.
Matt: "Any preference of companion? We have a spectrum to choose from."
Marisha: It feels weird going and picking someone out. That feels dirty.
Matt: "Would you prefer it a surprise?"
Marisha: Yeah. Just make her hot, please.
Matt: "Her. That is a preference. Very well." Goes and writes something down. "Can be done. For a night's companionship, do you wish just for an evening's stay, or for the night over?"
Marisha: No, just an hour, and then I want to be alone, please.
Matt: That will be an additional five gold pieces.
Marisha: All right. Then I get really drunk, and I go to my room for the night. Send up booze.
Matt: "An additional five silver. Just racking up the tab, then." The rest of you?
Sam: We'll have a room by ourselves.
Matt: "The four of you?"
Sam: Oh, no, I mean--
Sumalee: I don't mind staying with you.
Ashly: No, we're fine, just sleeping.
Matt: "Very well, suit yourself, but I'll be here for most of the night, if you change your mind."
Ashly: Unless-- No judgment if you want to--
Liam: No, we have been together a long time, so we're used to--
Ashly: Oh, you're together.
Liam: Sure.
Sam: Not like that.
Ashly: Oh. Okay. I was going to say I think you could do better, but anyway.
Liam: I don't know if that was called for at all.
Ashly: Sorry.
Sam: No, you're absolutely right. He is handsome, and he could do much better than a little freakshow like me. He could meet any girl in town and sweep her off her feet.
Liam: Shush. This one and myself will take one room.
Ashly: I'll go with Nila, then.
Matt: "All right. Two per room, that's two gold for the group rate, so four gold for the two additional rooms, please."
Liam: I will handle the two gold for Nott and myself.
Ashly: I'll do the two gold for us.
Matt: "All right." He gives a key to each of you for each room.
Sumalee: Thank you. I was going to give it for us, but next time.
Ashly: No problem.
Liam: Oh, boy.
Sam: What? Do you have any gold left?
Liam: Sure, I'm good.
Ashly: Sorry, Nott. You're a great gal. It's the occasional tongue-eating, is mostly what I was referring to.
Liam: You know, maybe quit while you're ahead. Nott, come on, let's go upstairs.
Matt: You guys all scatter to your separate chambers and find yourselves a, as restful as it can be given the events recently, night's sleep. Beau, drunkenly, you have enough consciousness to recall eventually a knock at your door.
Marisha: Oh. Right. I open the door.
Matt: Standing there, you see an amber-skinned elven woman, a little older than you, with very bright, almost platinum hair that is pulled up into a high ponytail that drifts past the shoulders, seeming a very sheer negligee.
Marisha: Uhh... Hi.
Sam: Looking up the spell?
Liam: No, something else. You're good. Go on, get it on.
Marisha: What's your name?
Matt: "Vorsah." She pushes you in the room and closes the door.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: Cut to black.
Sumalee: Nila was going to cover her ears.
Liam: You're probably nailing a 250-year-old!
Marisha: Hot!
Sam: Oh, elven aging! Cougar!
Marisha: Yeah, exactly!
Matt: (singing) Here's to you, Mrs. Robinson. The morning eventually comes, some of you more hungover than others, but as you come to and gather yourselves and wash for the coming day, you hear the sounds of almost broken roosters outside. They call: this horrible, terrible-- It's a harsh north this side of Wildemount for these poor birds.
Liam: Welcome to Deadwood!
Matt: This is very much the Deadwood of the continent. You can already hear the town coming alive outside; the occasional shouts-- you're unable to make out the words, but the morning has definitely kicked in. You gather your things and make your way down to the bottom floor where Champ is not currently there. There's somebody else-- looks to be a younger man, probably in his late teens, early 20s. He appears to be half-elven, with this curly mop of bright-red hair on the top and a smile, and he's currently going through a ledger of some kind.
Ashly: Do I recognize him?
Matt: You do not.
Sam: His name is Rex.
Sumalee: Rick and Rex.
Liam: Before going down with Nott and Caleb, I would say when we get up: We need to talk for a minute, okay?
Sam: Listen, you should just forgive Keg, she doesn't know that she was being insulting. She's rough around the edges-- and she's right, you could do better than me. Look at this. This is a mess. I mean, the teeth.
Liam: I don't care about Keg or any of that. I want to talk about what you and I are doing.
Sam: All right.
Liam: I was this close to running off from that road when things turned on us. You and I, we are going to survive together. That is the main thing.
Sam: Why didn't you run?
Liam: The dwarf stepped up. (snaps) Changed my mind like that.
Sam: Changed your mind because we had extra help, or--
Liam: Whatever she said to him, he left.
Sam: Oh, the danger was passed.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Mm-hmm.
Liam: But we have done a lot and you know what I am about.
Sam: Of course I do, yes.
Liam: So I just want you and I, you and me especially, to be on the same page because we have been for months now, ja? You are my friend, I want you to be with me, and I want us to live. We have done a lot with these people, and if we can finesse this and do it in a way that does not throw our lives in the fire, there is more to be achieved. We will help you get to where you want to get, and myself, together. We will work together with these people.
Sam: I know that you want revenge for what that man did to you, and there's things I want too, but... Mollymauk was amazing. Showed me something. He had this spirit of life that was pretty outstanding. You know, he was the moment that we all traveled together. He came up, and we were all talking, and all cagey, and all iffy with each other when we met all these folks but he said, "Hey, want to come see a circus show?" and that lit the spark, right?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: But before that, it was-- All I'm saying is, he was a rainbow man who represented life at its fullest, and that's what I want. Even more than what we were going for before. Together, we're sort of living life now, aren't we? Before, we were in the darkness. So I know we have things to do, and I want to do them. But the reason I want to find these people and rescue them is not to use them, and it's not because we've invested time in them, but it's because I love them. We need to find them and rescue them because we're a team now. So if you're just using them or whatever, that's fine and I'll support you; but I want to find them so that we don't go back to the way it was, when we were hiding in the shadows and ducking into alleys to get away from people. We were safe, but we weren't really alive, right? With these people, we're having fun and winning contests and killing bad guys and rescuing children, and it's amazing. I hope you're with me on that, and I hope we are on the same page.
Liam: I like them.
Sam: That's a good start. I think they like you.
Liam: We are not hiding anymore. Well, not like we used to. There is a certain amount of risk to what we are doing. And what I want is good, for more people than just me.
Sam: I know it is, and I want it for you. We've used a lot of people in the past and I just want to make sure we're not using these folks. Are we?
Liam: Well, we are about to risk our lives to pull three people we met four or five weeks ago out of the hands of a lot of dangerous people. Seems like a pretty good offer for them.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: I don't have any family; you're the closest thing that I have. I have come to rely on you and I am grateful for your company.
Sam: I couldn't do this without you.
Liam: Well, let's screw our courage to the sticking place and get them out of there.
Sam: Yes. Let's get them home, and let's kill Lorenzo. I have an idea. I know my last one didn't go so well, but listen: we can't fight these people. I've said it before and I'll say it again, but what we can do is exactly what they do. They go out and pick off people one at a time. Why don't we start doing that to them? Follow them, track them, see where they go home at night, and just pick them off one at a time. The weaker ones first, and by the time Lorenzo knows what's happening, he'll be scared out of his mind.
Liam: He would get more defensive with time. I don't know. We don't know enough. I would like to find out where he sleeps.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Head-on, I agree, not a good idea. We will take a roundabout way. Let's figure out what we're talking about first.
Sam: All right. To breakfast.
Liam: I invite her in.
Sam: I'll nestle in.
Liam: I don't even say anything, just a firm hug. Let's go down.
Matt: As both Nila and Keg have enjoyed a decent meal, not as much as you'd expect for the money that was paid included for the evening's stay, but a meal nevertheless.
Marisha: Hotel prices. What?
Liam: Sex bacon. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually Caleb and Nott make their way down to join you.
Ashly: When Keg sees Nott, she pulls out a piece of paper and some broken spectacles and says, Nott?
Sam: What's this? What are you doing?
Ashly: I'm sorry I said that you were not good enough for--
Sam: Why are you wearing those things?
Ashly: I'm trying to apol-- just give me a second! I'm sorry I said you were not good enough for Caleb--
Sam: Did someone tell you to do this?
Ashly: You're very nice-- I'm trying to be nice, just give-- this is as painful for me as it is for you, just give me five seconds!
Sam: Sure, sure.
Ashly: I'm sorry I was mean.
Sam: Can we get some hash browns or something?
Ashly: You may be kind of weird, but you're also nice.
Sam: I don't think there was a verb in that sentence.
Ashly: I am sorry, and when you aren't eating tongue, you're sort of cute. Love, Keg.
Sam: Okay, so, a few things.
Ashly: Do you have notes?
Sam: I mean, you don't need to sign it if you're saying.
Ashly: I don't know, I was writing it! I didn't know if I was going to say it to you or give it to you, so I panicked and I-- I'm sorry.
Marisha: Beau comes down the stairs, hearing the end of it, and just goes (applause)
Ashly: Thanks, Beau.
Marisha: I could learn a few things from you. That was a good apology. Damn good.
Sam: Apology accepted. Don't worry about it, I have a thick skin about this stuff, and I know I haven't put my best foot forward with you. We got off on a wrong foot. To a brighter tomorrow!
Ashly: That was much more eloquent than mine was.
Sam: I just made that up, I didn't even have to write it down.
Ashly: You didn't even have to write it down?!
Sam: No.
Ashly: Fuck, I'm so bad at this. And then she shoves bacon in her mouth.
Matt: All right, so what's your plan?
Liam: (long sigh) We are going to go and meet the Marduns.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We are going to ask for Ophelia Mardun.
Marisha: I have a feeling maybe her business has something to do with the Iron Shepherds as well.
Liam: Maybe.
Ashly: We can hope.
Marisha: Do you know anything about any of the families here?
Sumalee: I do not. Nila would like to gather these goodberries and, on the way out, give one to each of those horrible sounding roosters. (laughter)
Matt: Perfect.
Sumalee: They need help.
Matt: As Nila's out there healing the roosters and you're leaving, the young, curly red-haired half-elven proprietor at the front leans forward and says, "I'm sorry, I don't mean to intrude, but whatever it is you're after, good luck and I hope you're on the right track."
Ashly: Who the hell are you?
Sam: That's super weird. He seems like a nice, normal person here.
Marisha: Is it a female?
Matt: "Sorry, I'm Keelyn. I take the early shift here--" It's a man. Vibrant green eyes. "But I've overheard you're going to see the Marduns. Just listen carefully."
Sam: Listen carefully?
Matt: Listen carefully.
Sam: Like while we walk there, we should listen?
Matt: As you listen and talk with them.
Sam: Oh.
Liam: Oh. Not right now, but when we are-- ja.
Marisha: Well, I imagine we should also be listening carefully right now, as well as then.
Matt: "That works as well, but--"
Sam: What's wrong with them? What should we know?
Matt: "Nothing. They're gracious employers, I enjoy my time here, but just listen carefully. I'm trying to help, that's all. Good day! Be off, be off!"
Sam: No, I know, but why? We haven't paid you-- okay.
Liam: It's very enigmatic, but we will-- okay.
Matt: "Good luck." Takes a little glass of tea and sips it.
Ashly: Can I do an insight check on him to see if he's sketchy?
Matt: Yeah, go for it. He's pretty sketchy.
Ashly: I mean, yeah, but sketchy in the-- well, eight. Like is he trying to fuck with us.
Liam: Where are your 20s, Ashly, where are your 20s?
Ashly: I know, I wasted them all!
Matt: It's hard to read. He seems forthright enough, but also guarded. It's hard to tell.
Ashly: Okay.
Sam: How long have you been working for the Marduns?
Matt: "Me? About six, seven months."
Sam: Do you like the work?
Matt: "I mean, it has its benefits."
Sam: You mean, like--
Ashly: Nott!
Matt: "Be on your way and good luck." Sips the tea again.
Marisha: That's totally what he means.
Sam: What are those marks all over your neck?
Marisha: Badge of honor.
Sam: Did you get in a fight last night?
Ashly: Nott, for real, man. Context clues.
Marisha: I mean, you could say it was a nice little tussle. It was a nice little square off.
Sam: Who won?
Marisha: I'd say we both won.
Sam: Simultaneously?
Marisha: I definitely won. I won a few times. (laughter)
Sam: Cool, cool, cool. (laughter)
Sumalee: Nila will offer you another goodberry, too.
Marisha: Ooh! Do they make my hickies go away?
Matt: They definitely seem to recede a bit.
Marisha: Holy shit. This is miracle cream, Nila! Oh my god!
Matt: A use for goodberries I've not yet seen in my years playing D&D!
Marisha: You could make a cosmetic line!
Matt: All right. As you make your way back into the streets of the city, you begin to make your way back into the Clover Plaza. Now, do you know where you're going?
Ashly: Do I know a lot?
Matt: You've not been to these estates, specifically because your employers are diametrically opposed to the Marduns, but you know the vague idea of where it is. But you've never traveled there. You could probably ask around, if you'd like. If you were to search for somebody who would hopefully be of help.
Ashly: Could we have asked that guy?
Matt: You can go back and ask.
Ashly: Should we go back and ask the creepy guy?
Sam: I mean, he seems to know them. I guess so.
Ashly: One more thing!
Sam: We're going to go back and ask the creepy guy how to get to the Marduns'.
Ashly: Keelyn.
Matt: "Hi again!"
Ashly: Hi. We should have asked this before we left the first time. Do you know where their estate is?
Matt: "You're looking for them and you don't know where they are?"
Ashly: Yeah, man.
Matt: "Northwest outskirts of the town limits, within the forest. Look for the dark red wood exterior."
Ashly: Okay.
Matt: "You'll find it, I trust."
Ashly: Why are you helping us?
Matt: "Because this place is a shithole and decent people are hard to find."
Liam: We'll let you know if we find them. Come on.
Matt: All right. You guys head out into the streets, and now, it's interesting. As you head out into the plaza, it's much busier than it was towards the evening you were here before. You see a small regiment of people. Armored, geared up. Weapons-- [crowd sound effects]
Marisha: How does he do that?
Ashly: The timing!
Liam: Where does he get such wonderful toys?
Matt: BattleBards! And Syrinscape! You glance and see 20 or so of these figures, all in various types of armor and weapons. They're in lines, ramshackle. It resembles something military, but by people who aren't trained by military or at least have any interest in that type of regimented standing. You see, at glance, a few Empire soldiers, three in full armor. Not crownsguard, but from the actual military, that are inspecting up and down the line.
Marisha: Is it like a militia that they're forming?
Matt: It looks to be. You recognize most of the folks here to be Grudge Gang.
Ashly: Okay.
Matt: You have a question?
Liam: There is a difference between Crownsguard and Empire soldiers? Is one higher than the other?
Matt: Well there's the military. The Crownsguard are essentially the general guardians of every township and they do day to day law enforcement.
Marisha: Cops.
Sam: Cops.
Matt: The actual military soldiers, you saw gathering on the outskirts of Zadash when the war first kicked in, and passed one of the large armies traveling eastward from up by the western side of the Silberquel Ridge.
Liam: Yeah, I don't think we've ever discussed this, but is Caleb's father Crownsguard, or Empire?
Matt: No. Your father would have been low-level military.
Liam: Which is below both of those?
Matt: No. It's slightly above Crownsguard.
Liam: Okay.
Ashly: They're the Grudge Gang that we see?
Matt: Yes, and watching as you pass by. You get the sense that it looks like the Empire is hiring mercenaries for the war.
Ashly: Okay.
Matt: Coasting around the north side. You tell the group to make a wide berth outside of the trench. Which is on the northern end of the plaza. Following the directive of Keelyn you start weaving toward what's called North Clover. Clover Street, you've now begun to note is the large central street that is the one throughline of the entire city. It runs all around the treeline of the Savalierwood. It's strange and not straight in places, and it was designed to follow the southern border of this forest. The northern side of it, North Clover is built directly into this forest. You know-- Make a history check, actually. Caleb, you can make a history check too.
Ashly: 17.
Matt: Not bad. That works. You've been at this for a while. The Savalierwood has been cursed for many centuries. The once-green forest now stands a greyish purple ashen color that it now holds and the superstition and mythology around it has allowed the city of Shadycreek Run to prevent Empire encroachment. They built the city into the space, and every time the Empire has attempted to move forward they've pulled back and used it as a defensive position. Essentially, over a number of conflicts, the Empire just gave up, and let the region exist on its own. It is dangerous, the wood. The deeper in, the more dangerous it gets.
Ashly: And The Sour Nest is nestled into it.
Matt: It's nestled into the forest even further north of where the city stops in the forest. Continuing on you begin to enter the canopy of the south Savalierwood. The shade completely consumes the city at this point, even though it's mid-morning and the clouds are broken up so that occasional bits of warmth and sunlight would occasionally pass through the city, now it seems like it's almost dusk immediately. Occasionally you see a leaf tumble past, and then another. It's almost beautiful, the color, but it does have almost a decaying sense to its meeting between grey and purple. It's beautiful in light, and then when it hits the ground it almost looks like it's bereft of life. You don't understand the nature of this enchantment, whatever this curse may be that you've heard of.
Marisha: Nila. Is there something wrong with the soil here or something? Do you know anything about this?
Sumalee: I don't like the look of it. Feels bad. Do I have something that can tell? Do you know? (laughter)
Liam: Well, you're not familiar with this where you are from?
Sumalee: No, no.
Marisha: You could do a general nature check.
Matt: You could do a nature check if you wanted to try--
Sumalee: I wanted to use Druidcraft, but I don't know.
Liam: Roll one of your buddies.
Sumalee: Plus eight.
Liam: 14.
Marisha: No, no. Eight total.
Sumalee: It's right? This roll plus two.
Matt: Correct, yeah. This is beyond you. In all of your experience-- and you're very connected with the land of the valley-- this far north you've not encountered something like this. The forest-- the best you can tell, the forest still lives. The nature of where it draws its life and this color is very unnatural and it spooks you.
Sumalee: Is it like a half-dead forest? Like a--
Matt: It feels alive and you pick up the leaf that you saw tumbled before you and you feel it and it still brims with health. It also off-puts you. You get chills and you don't know why.
Sumalee: I don't need to check my smell bag for this.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: I think stink pouch is still my favorite phrase.
Sumalee: Stink pouch, fine.
Matt: No, smell bag is great.
Sam: Odor sack?
Ashly: It's somehow worse than stink pouch as far as what it evokes.
Liam: Sniff nuts.
Sumalee: Are there any animals?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: What was the name of the forest?
Sumalee: Ooh, it hit that, does that count? Can I roll again?
Matt: It still counts, yeah, unfortunately.
Sumalee: Eight.
Matt: You don't see anything specifically. You do hear birds, so it isn't bereft of wildlife. At least you get the sense that there is at least a symbiotic relationship with some wildlife in the bit of the forest you've been in.
Sumalee: I'd love to take one of my goodberries to draw one of the birds and see if I might talk with it and see if it could tell us anything about before.
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Sam: Ooh, what is this? Druid stuff.
Sumalee: 12 plus seven. 19.
Matt: As you hold the goodberry out, which, with your arm length, is a good nine, nine and a half feet up towards the lower hanging branches, and you (bird song) give a little counterwhistle to the sound of one of the birds you hear. You hear a retort (bird whistle) and you return it (bird whistle), and then it returns (bird whistle, flutter), and then down onto the edge of your hand you see this tiny little blackbird with a white stripe that goes down the edge of each wing. It-- (chirping)-- and starts eating the goodberry, messing the edge of its beak.
Liam: -- giant shitty rooster.
Ashly: (squawk)
Matt: It's eating the goodberry. What would you like to do?
Sumalee: What would we like to ask it?
Sam: First thing that pops into my mind is do you know Kiri, but I don't think that's relevant.
Marisha: You have to stop thinking that all people who look like each other know everybody.
Sam: Don't they though?
Marisha: No!
Sam: All right. Maybe, "How long has this curse been here? How long has the forest been spooky-ooky?"
Marisha: Do they know how much further the Marduns' keep is?
Sam: Are there any monsters out there?
Sumalee: That's too much, one at a time! How long has the forest been like this?
Matt: Are you using a spell or are you using your firbolg ability?
Sumalee: Oh, I'm using my firbolg ability.
Matt: That allows you to speak to animals.
Sumalee: Oh yes, I have to use a spell. Sorry. Wait, which one is it?
Liam: Wait.
Sam: Wait.
Sumalee: Do you know which one it is?
Marisha: Speak with Animals.
Liam: Speak with Animals.
Sumalee: Speech of the woods!
Ashly: Nila's just staring at this bird.
Matt: Speech of the woods is your firbolg ability.
Sumalee: Oh. I know I have it.
Matt: If you look on your spell list, the cards you have prepared, do you have Speak with Animals prepared?
Sumalee: I know I have it. Oh, it's because I chose my Spirit Totem.
Matt: Oh right. Because you're Shepherd.
Sumalee: Yes. I have--
Matt: Yes you do, because you're Circle of the Shepherd.
Sumalee: Whew!
Marisha: You got this!
Sumalee: I was like, "I set this all up and then I'm not going to be able to talk to the bird!"
Liam: She's an Iron Shepherd, kill her!
Matt: You get to mark off one of your 1st-level spells. As you ask the bird, the bird returns-- and you guys hear her whistle to the bird, and the bird whistles back quite a bit, this beautiful song that plays. The bird conveys to you, "Far, far before my time."
Sumalee: It says it's been this way a long time.
Marisha: Wow. I mean, how long is long for a bird though?
Sam: They only live for three weeks, right? That's probably a bad question.
Sumalee: This bird lives a long time, I can tell you. This type of bird is not a short-lived bird.
Marisha: Dagon can live to be 30. She's going to outlive us all.
Liam: Would you like to ask it what is dangerous in the wood?
Sumalee: Yes. What is most dangerous here?
Matt: "Be wary of spirits."
Marisha: Ooh, spirits.
Matt: "Be wary of bone-spurred beasts."
Marisha: Bone-spurred beasts. Okay.
Ashly: Doesn't sound great.
Sumalee: What other questions? Are you still willing to answer some more?
Matt: How long does the spell last?
Liam: Three days.
Ashly: The bird's a party member now.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah.
Sam: How far are we from the Mardun house? I don't know if the bird is going to know--
Sumalee: I don't think the the bird would know the Mardun house.
Sam: Well, we can describe it  red wood house.
Marisha: Mansion!
Sam: Red wood mansion.
Sumalee: Oh, all right.
Marisha: Northwestish.
Sumalee: I'd like to send the bird, mentally, the picture of what that bird's eye view would be and to see if the bird has seen that.
Matt: Okay, you focus and express mentally and through small verbal gestures towards it the idea of this color and this shape. Immediately the bird (flapping) takes off.
Marisha: (gasp) Follow the bird.
Sam: (gasp) Follow the bird.
Matt: You guys all start keeping up and jogging behind it. You watch as it goes (flapping) and it lands on a post, lands on a little roof, looks back at you, (whistling) (flapping) and it's waiting and showing you a path through these streets. In doing so, you're dodging past-- originally when you walked in there were broken down tent cities and hovels and not a good space. Here the road and alleys break down. It's more sparse. The buildings are further apart. It's less of like a gridded city and more of a cluster of buildings that are generally more well made, and you get the sense that this is the wealthier area. You in your experience know that the North Clover is where most of the tribes, the different ruling families, exist and claim their territory. You move past a couple of buildings, eventually the bird bringing you to a beautiful, two-story estate that's in the beginning stages of showing disrepair. The dark-red wood appears imported, and the tall stone fence that encircles the building is topped with six-inch spear tips. A few that look bent and off kilter, but still dangerous enough for somebody who wished to try and leap the six, seven-foot fence. The courtyard houses a once beautiful garden that now turns grey with the winter. You can see rose bushes that have since browned and withered but the roses still slowly left there to dry and lose color. You can see in the center of this courtyard a small fountain of some kind, but now it's filled with slushed snow, and here the bits of the snow that have been pushed off the streets, give way to this estate that's glaring now at the outskirts of the forest. You can see beyond it, it's just wood. This definitely marks, at least at this part of Shadycreek Run, the end of the city, before you begin to crest into the Savalierwood itself. There are three individuals that are wearing simple chain mail, that are walking inside the courtyard. One has a crossbow at their side, the other has a shortbow across their shoulder. One is sitting, looking out. The other looks like they're eating some sort of dried meat from a pouch, and they glance over and watch as you approach and keep an eye.
Marisha: Do they look like Taskers? Do they have the same armor?
Matt: They're not Taskers, no.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: They're probably just guarding the place.
Marisha: Hired hands.
Sam: Does someone want to go talk to them?
Liam: Ja. That is not a problem. Hello.
Matt: The one that's sitting, stands up and puts his crossbow like-- ready, not pointing it at you, but--
Liam: Ja. We are good here.
Matt: "What is your intent here?"
Liam: We have been traveling a great distance. We are here to speak, if you don't mind, we have a message for Ophelia Mardun. It can only be heard by her. We have been charged with this message and no funny business. I hope that we could impart our message and be done.
Matt: "I can take your message and pass it on!"
Liam: Would you tell her that a very refined gentleman from the south would like to pass his regards to her.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Ja. (groans)
Sam: (southern accent) A southern gentleman.
Liam: Not very good at all.
Sam: (groan)
Ashly: (groan)
Matt: He goes, "And there's five of you?"
Liam: It is a long way.
Marisha: And an important message.
Liam: Yeah. Only a fool travels alone.
Matt: "I'll pass on the message! You'll be summoned if necessary, but (clicks tongue)" Gives a motion over to the other guard who's finished eating, who's also pulled the shortbow off the shoulder and has knocked an arrow into it. Gives a whistle and the doors to the estate open, and you watch as three more guards emerge with crossbows, and one with a heavy crossbow at the ready. They all keep them at the ready, very close eye. One of them begins to patrol the outside of the building. You get the sense immediately that there's a general anxiety and tension at this space when strangers approach. They're being very careful.
Marisha: Can I look around, do I see anybody who's hidden, watching from windows up above, anything that looks like we're being watched?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Not by guards, necessarily. 21.
Matt: You glance up, and on the second floor there is two sets of double windows. They're paned, one of them looks to be partially opened, and you can see on the inside there are curtains. One, the curtains are closed, the other is drawn to a side, and you see a figure looking out below. As soon as you look up and see it, the curtain closes.
Marisha: Did I catch a glimpse of what the figure looks like?
Matt: The figure looked to be human, though the skin was dark. That's as best as you can get before they vanished.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: I'm just smiling at the guards.
Matt: You see all the other guards each place one of their weapons pointed directly at each of you, and the quiet comes over all of you, as this moment, this standoff continues for a minute, two minutes. As the first guard that you spoke to enters and closes the door behind.
Liam: (exhales)
Ashly: So do you like being guards?
Matt: "Shh!" One of them tightens the grip.
Ashly: Got it.
Matt: This large, heavy crossbow already notched backward and the tension on the wire itself is-- this guy is looking like he is ready to fire.
Liam: We are all going to laugh about this later, I promise. (nervous laugh)
Matt: A moment later the guard emerges from the door. "All right, stand down."
Sam: Oh.
Matt: They all pull their weapons away, looking disappointed.
Liam: We are good?
Matt: "Open the gate." The guard who was eating earlier, puts the shortbow over the shoulder, still looking wary, and they're not moving from where they're standing. They're all keeping a very close eye on all five of you. Opens the gate (clicking) (creaking). The metallic gate swings open, and you're all brought into the courtyard. As you're begin to follow the first guard you spoke with, they all slowly coalesce behind you, still keeping their weapons at the side, but ready if need be. As you're led to the interior chamber of this estate, the Estate Sybaritic. As soon as you enter the main foyer, the earthy smell of the forest gives way to the lingering scent of a recent meal. As if the cooked meats and starches that were eaten maybe an hour or two beforehand still permeate the air of this entryway. You see before you a staircase that continues upward, red carpeted, before switching back to a second floor. In that center landing you can see a very open window that looks down to possibly a backyard of some kind, but currently the view is of the darkened leaves and bits of sunlight that break through. It seems like something that was built for a beautiful view, not understanding until it was completed that it didn't really catch much of a view amongst this forest, like the original builder had brought sensibilities from outside to bring them in, and it was not compatible with this landscape. There, you see to the left and right of you art pieces that depict people. You can see individuals of different backgrounds, and you see one that appears to be of pure elven blood with brown hair, difficult to make out the gender, but beautiful and standing very robust with a chin out and a wily grin. Oils, very well done. To the left of you, you can see the other portrait appears to be a woman with a very well made dress with these large, almost puffs at the shoulders. It seems almost trying too hard to be aristocratic. It's garish, but here you are. A moment later the door closes behind you, and you're still being flanked by this bevy of guards. You hear the heavy footsteps coming down the staircase. Turning the corner, you see a figure now, framed in what little of the light is coming through that window behind them. (footfalls) Stepping down you see a woman, dark-gray skin and ankle-length, black hair that is smooth and straight that falls behind her. You see bony crests of horns that curve up into these two large points behind the head and bright yellow eyes that are pupil-less. A grin that shows two fanged canines. As she descends you can see her attire is very formal, colonial style coat with epaulets, but it seems to be tailored to not hide her figure. She already exudes an air of powerful aggression and presence. With each step that she takes down there, you can sense her immediately reading and seeing in and through each of you. Quietly she takes the last step to the landing here in the foyer. (German accent) "You bring tidings from The Gentleman, you say."
Liam: That is correct, ja.
Matt: "Well you have invoked the name of my comrade. You have my attention, do not squander it. Why are you here?"
Liam: Well, we will be plain. He has sent us. He has told us that you are in need of assistance, and he has deemed us worthy to provide it.
Sam: Are you Ophelia?
Matt: "I am."
Sam: Oh, just making sure.
Marisha: Yeah, that's good.
Sam: It could be someone else.
Matt: "Thorough, I appreciate that. Well so, you are the help that he sent. Timely, three days earlier would have been better, but here we are. I shall not fret on it. Thank you for coming. Be at ease, go watch the back walls, make sure nobody tries to sneak in while we're talking." The guards all scatter, except for two who stay posted at each side of the door behind you. "How much have you been told?"
Liam: (small laugh) Not very much.
Matt: You watch as her eyes looks you from head to toe and her tongue runs across her lip a bit. "(sighs) I've had an open line of shipments to Zadash, through our mutual friend for some time, made a beneficial arrangement for many years."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check? Did it look like she cast a spell just then?
Matt: Sure, make an insight check.
Marisha: 25.
Sam: Oh, whispers.
Sam: Whispers.
Ashly: Whispers.
Liam: Fireball. (laughter)
Sam: Guys--
Liam: D&D Beyond.
Sam: D&D Beyond.
Liam: Am I right?
Sam: Is a really good app.
Ashly: (flatly) It's so great.
Liam: It's like-- I can be on the shitter, if I want to check--
Sam: You can customize that.
Liam: Caleb's spells.
Ashly: I can?!
Matt: Oh god.
Sam: You can with their new upgrade.
Liam: I can be mid dook.
Sam: You can be mid dook?
Liam: Mid dook and check my spells.
Sam: You're mid dook right now.
Matt: Anyway, bringing it back in.
Marisha: Shipments to Zadash.
Matt: "However, my most trusted team of smugglers that handle that route and knew it well were slain a little over a month ago."
Sam: Do you know by whom?
Matt: "Well, at first we thought it was maybe the dire beasts of the wood around us, but our internal priest was able to divine the source of their demise. In other words, at the hands of the Jagentoths."
Sam: The who? What?
Ashly: It's the family that controls the Iron Shepherds.
Sam: The Jagendoths?
Ashly: The Jagentoths.
Matt: "Now we've-- as you seem to know this well." She looks over you. "You look familiar. What is your name?"
Ashly: Keg.
Matt: "Keg, I know that name."
Ashly: I used to work for them. Not anymore.
Matt: At which point you hear the guards behind (cocking crossbow). The crossbows go back up into position. You glance over your shoulder to see them both pointed-- "What assurances can I have that I not need strike you down where you stand?"
Ashly: You don't have any, but I have a lot of information about them.
Sam: We just killed one of them.
Ashly: Oh, that's true. That's better. We killed one of them.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with advantage.
Ashly: That is a 12.
Matt: "Intriguing. Very well." They go down. "(sighing) We and these Jagentoths have feuded for quite some time between these tribes. Many times it has come to bloodshed, but now with the Grudge Gang and the Taskers making open justice throughout the realm messy, we must take to other means. We cannot deliver our retribution with hands that can be traced back to us. As this affects both the Marduns and The Gentleman, he is wise to send you, and this kindness shall be repaid in person. The Jagentoths have slaughtered and stolen from us a major source of contraband and income. It's only fair we do the same in kind. We here of the Estate Sybaritic require you to cut one of the limbs of their business. Kill their best handymen. Hunt the Iron Shepherds."
Liam: One more time, please?
Matt: "Hunt the Iron Shepherds."
Liam: Your accent is thick.
Matt: "I have not been as far south as some of you, I can tell."
Liam: No, I appreciate hearing the old tongue again.
Matt: She says to you in Zemnian, "Well, stick around." (in Common) "Last I heard, they are still out on the road. They live at The Sour Nest, a small stronghold not far from here on the edge of North Clover to the eastern side. They have a number of hired hands that guard the locale. It's a difficult infiltration, but it's your best chance of catching them off guard. If you have other ideas, we are open to suggestions. Am I to believe that you have been sent," and her eyes fall over Nila, "as trained killers, able to deal with this?"
Liam: Some of us are trained killers for sure, and we have picked up help as we have seen fit. Everyone has been carefully selected, carefully vetted. I'm sure that with your input on their mannerisms and habits, their routines, we will do quite well.
Matt: "All right. Let us hope that the priest was not incorrect. Either way, I would like to see them taken down a peg. So do you accept this offer?"
Marisha: What all do you want us getting out of that house?
Matt: "Nothing to get out of it. Kill everything within it."
Ashly: When you say this can't get traced back to you guys, does that mean you can't help us at all? Give us any assistance as far as your men, firepower, nothing?
Matt: "No. We can offer maybe a bit of change to grease a few palms or bring some aid your way, but we cannot be traced to this at all. This needs to seem unrelated. A strange occurrence, a random act of murder was in their home, so as not to quell this already boiling blood between us."
Marisha: You think all of the Iron Shepherds will be there?
Matt: "Well, I don't know. They're there often. But if you've made it this far north, perhaps you are better at finding this information than we."
Liam: We have come a long way. Is there any-- You know them better than us; we're out-of-towners. Any tips to specifically deal with your problem?
Matt: "Best intel we have involves that they hire their mercenaries from the Grudge Gang. They prefer to find people with keen eyes and distant shot."
Sam: The Grudge Gang-- they've hired the entire gang, or just the members of the--
Matt: "Just members of the gang."
Sam: Where do they hang about?
Matt: "All over the city, but the ones they've hired will probably stay within the estate."
Sam: They would stay there while they're under the employ of the Iron Shepherds?
Matt: "Of course. That is what I do." She refers to the two guards behind you.
Marisha: Do you know-- sorry. You can go.
Ashly: You said that they're still on the road? You're led to believe that they haven't come back to Shadycreek Run yet?
Matt: "I haven't seen them return yet, no."
Sam: Would you know if they came back? Do you have spies out there looking?
Matt: "I have."
Sam: Because we saw them on the road and they were heading back here.
Matt: "If they have arrived recently, perhaps my whispers have not come to me yet."
Ashly: There's a chance The Sour Nest is empty, or less guarded.
Marisha: I wonder if they're hiring.
Sam: Does the Grudge Gang identify themselves in some way? How would we find one?
Matt: "They usually--" and she pulls back her sleeve and you can see the dark gray, almost black skin there beneath. "You will find a burned crescent into the wrist of a member of the gang."
Sam: Let's get a fireplace and some iron and burn the shit out of our wrists, and then we're insta-Grudge Gang. Now, The Gentleman has us on a meager yearly salary, but if we were to do this for you, does that include some sort of bonus?
Matt: "Are you saying The Gentleman has not paid you for this endeavor?"
Sam: Not yet.
Matt: "I was made to understand that that was all taken care of as part of our arrangement."
Marisha: How about something in trade? Just as a little added bonus as a favor.
Matt: "What are you asking for, if I might inquire, little girl?" She leans forward with this creepy smile that crawls across her face as she eyes you up and down.
Liam: There we go.
Marisha: Kind of like her demeaning me with that little girl stuff. I'm kind of into it. Anyway, that priest you mentioned. Is he a pretty skilled priest? Would he happen to have any skills in reviving the dead?
Matt: "You have a problem with someone beneath the earth. I do not know if our priest specializes in such abilities, and if they did, it would be for family only."
Marisha: Sounds like he does specialize in those abilities when you put it like that. If exceptions can be made for friends and family. Friends and family discount is a real thing.
Matt: "You're mighty presumptuous. You might have better luck with any of the wandering crazies in the city."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Our priest is not the only one." She cocks her head. "If you're looking for help, could look to the Blooming Grove."
Sam: Where's that? What's that? Is that a town?
Matt: "It's about six miles out of Shadycreek Run, to the northwest, a little farther from here. It's a burial grove, but there is a temple there and some strange hermit of a priest is said to live there. Most folks are spooked of them. The family that once looked over that grove has slowly dwindled as the years have gone on, and they say the curse itself seems to hold it, but try that. Otherwise, you need to do quite a favor for us, as such magic is not inexpensive."
Ashly: Killing all of the Iron Shepherds isn't a big enough favor?
Matt: "You've already been paid for that."
Liam: Yeah, this is a pre-existing arrangement that's outside of negotiation at the moment. I understand. We will take care of what you are asking.
Matt: "Good. That's what I like, straightforward and working to the fine print. Very good."
Liam: Zemnian.
Sam: All right. You don't want us staying here, I suppose? We should scoot out so that we can't be traced back to you?
Matt: "We'll lead you out the back route. Eyes on you leaving my estate would be unwise. So." Begins speaking in Zemnian to the two other guards-- you're the only one who picks up on the language-- says, "Please lead them through the back tunnel." She turns around and begins to ascend the stairs, stopping and looking back over her shoulder, the hair swishing with each step as she makes her way up, looking back, and the yellow eyes glancing back with the bright white teeth against the darkened skin. "Do not disappoint me. I can be very frustrated when I'm disappointed." Turns back and makes her way back up the steps.
Liam: We're left with guards?
Matt: Two guards, yes.
Liam: All right, good fellows, would you escort us out and point us in the right direction?
Matt: They wordlessly walk and lead you around through a dining chamber back to a small storage-- it'd be kitchen adjacent, though you don't see a kitchen yet. You can smell that musty scent of stored oats and grains, rice.
Liam: Did I see any books on the way out?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 14.
Matt: None down here. None of the rooms you were brought through seem to have any sort of a shelf unit or anything that carries tomes or books of any kind, unfortunately.
Liam: Fuck this podunk town.
Matt: There doesn't seem to be very well-read people though there're probably some. You're led into this storage room and down a staircase through a trapdoor. It's pulled open. You're led into this wine cellar and in the back of the wine cellar, they move aside a case shelving for wine, and they're all resting on it, some missing, others moving it there. There's a small tunnel that you all have to duck down. You have to nearly crawl through to get your rather large firbolg form.
Ashly: Can I sleight of hand and try to steal some wine?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: I was about to ask if I recognize any wine.
Matt: You're moving pretty fast. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Okay.
Ashly: Maybe I shouldn't.
Sam: Oh, it's too late now.
Ashly: Oh, it's great! 18.
Matt: What'd you get?
Marisha: Nine.
Matt: Unfortunately, you can't see any of the labels the way it's rested. However, you do manage to grab a bottle of wine.
Sam: Ooh, is that a Cabernet Sauvignon?
Matt: You guys are brought through single-file through this tunnel until eventually, met with another door. The guard (knocking) does some sort of pulsed knock. It opens and from this completely dark interior, the light hits your eyes and you have to adjust for a moment. It's really not that bright on the opposite side; it's still within the forest. Comparatively, it hits you. As you step out, there looks to be an older drunk, dirty, filthy-looking man who is completely sober and lets you out.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: You are now in the middle of the forest, and you can see a small bench and an overgrown well about ten or so feet ahead and to the left of you that vines have completely taken over. The vines themselves, a similar purple-grayish color as to the rest of the leaves. A lot of the foliage seems to fall into that same coloration. Not all of it, but a lot of it. It seems to cross multiple types of vegetation. As you're escorted from this room, the two guards give a nod, close it behind you. The old man goes and sits back, puts his bench up against the knotted base of a thick tree that's growing out of the ground where you had emerged from. Leans against it, grabs a jug and sits and looks at you.
Ashly: Can I tell where The Sour Nest would be from here?
Matt: Make a survival check.
Ashly: 18.
Matt: With how far you've traveled north, it would be straight due east from here.
Ashly: Okay. Sour Nest is east of here.
Liam: You know where you are?
Sam: Should we go run recon? Take a quick scouting pass and see what we can see?
Liam: Yeah. Let's put a little distance between ourselves and this place and this gentleman and I will send Frumpkin out to have a look.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You make your way through the Savalierwood.
Sam: Is it a long walk? Or a long travel?
Matt: From where you are now, it's probably a two hour walk. It's the far east side. It's technically past the-- let's see, I have all the locations here. Pardon me as I pull out my notes.
Liam: While you look, I will say an important point for clarification. Once we are out of the view of this gentleman guarding the secret entrance, Caleb, walking with poise up to a tree, leans against it, bends down and has a panic attack.
Sam: You were in great in there!
Matt: Past the Gruff Slum is what it is. This is the far eastern side of it.
Ashly: Past the Gruff Stump?
Matt: The Gruff Slum.
Sam: You were great! You handled yourself so well. Man, you were rock-solid in there!
Liam: Stop it. I am nauseous. Let's go kill a bunch of people.
Sam: Give him a goodberry.
Sumalee: I have a goodberry.
Marisha: Oh, yes!
Liam: That is sour.
Sam: It's a Purin tablet.
Sumalee: One moment, it will take effect soon.
Ashly: Oh. End that way.
Marisha: Keep it down.
Liam: Let's go.
Matt: It does warm your belly, and that warmth spreads through your torso and it's-- whenever Jester has come and pulled you from the edge of death with a spell, it's a fragment of that warmth from the inside of your torso.
Liam: 'Member?
Marisha: 'Member berries. 'Member Jester?
Liam: 'Member clerics?
Marisha: Oh yeah, I 'member.
Matt: Following Keg through the wood, I would like you all to make stealth checks, please.
Sam: Stealthy!
Matt: You are no longer under the Pass without a Trace spell.
Marisha: You get all of your spells back after sleeping as well.
Liam: Four!
Ashly: 14.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 17.
Sumalee: 14.
Matt: Caleb's feeling a bit clumsy, but the rest of you, keeping up the slack, have managed to stop him at times and make him aware of his terrible attempts to stay out of sight and stay quiet. Two hours of travel eastward--
Marisha: We should plan.
Ashly: We wanted to send Frumpkin in.
Sam: We can send Frumpkin, but also, we have another animal companion now. If you wanted to become an animal something or other and scout around, that would be acceptable, right?
Marisha: That's true.
Sumalee: I would love that. What animal do you think would be the best? Maybe something small?
Marisha: And something native.
Sam: Well, Frumpkin's a bird, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Maybe we need something on the ground, like a weasel-y thing or a ratty type of thing or a roachy type of thing?
Liam: You said yesterday that-- you were a horse first and then you said you could only do it one more time or a certain number of times, correct?
Sumalee: Yes, I have two times now, right? Because I rested?
Matt: Correct. Two times every short rest.
Sumalee: I can do twice.
Liam: If you were to become, say, a raccoon right now and go running around, that is one time that you cannot become a crocodile to eat somebody's face off.
Sumalee: Yes, and I would like to eat somebody's face off.
Liam: Okay. I think, let us reserve that for now because Frumpkin can do the job. Let's get closer to this place and it would only take five minutes. He will go.
Sam: In owl form?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. He'll only be able to see from the sky. We should still do that, though, first.
Liam: I mean, I could turn him back into a cat, but then he's slower, he can't get over the walls maybe.
Sam: Go for it.
Marisha: Just send the bird.
Liam: How far have we traveled at this point?
Matt: About an hour into it, a sound catches your ear, Keg. It catches yours as well. (growling) You hear the faint breaking of tinder and dry branch.
Ashly: Do I know what this is off the top or must I make a check?
Matt: Make a straight intelligence check.
Ashly: (singing) Ooh, that's not going to go well for anyone.
Liam: Unless you roll high.
Sumalee: 20!
Liam: Nope.
Sumalee: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Sam: Yeah, but it's minus one.
Ashly: So it's zero! Did I help?
Matt: You have no idea, but it sounds unique.
Liam: Ducks, you guys. It's ducks.
Ashly: We're fine, keep going.
Sam: Oh, great!
Ashly: But Nila also recognizes it?
Matt: You hear it as well. What's your perception? Your passive perception?
Sumalee: 14.
Matt: 14. You'd actually hear it as well. You guys all put your hands out, stop, and hold still. You see a heavy shadow moving through the dense forest, just south of where you are.
Marisha: Nobody move. You want to send an owl towards that shadow, see if Frumpkin sees what that is?
Liam: Ja, okay, that's easy. I sit down on the ground and send Frumpkin into the air.
Matt: Okay. Under a branch, Frumpkin takes some of the low branches of these trees, underneath the canopy and gets a look. Through Frumpkin's eyes, you see what looks to be a black bear, but black bears that you've seen in passing before have been, maybe, eight feet, ten feet end to end. This one's closer to 15 and about ten feet to shoulder. Its fur is long and matted, almost greasy in patches. At the shoulders and the elbows and ridges on its face, you see bone protrusions, like spikes.
Marisha: Those were the bone spikes.
Matt: As it comes through you watch its large, heavy, almost exaggerated muscular shoulders (sounds of bear walking, growling, and sniffing) It sits down on the ground. It seems to have chosen a spot to take a nap.
Ashly: Do I have a sense of what aggros it?
Matt: Noise. People. Anything that it could eat.
Liam: (whispering) There is a very large black bear ahead of us, with bones coming out of its butt and stuff and it has just laid down for a nap.
Sam: (whispering) We have to be very quiet.
Marisha: (whispering) Can you do that thing again?
Sam: That makes us all stealthy?
Sumalee: (whispering) Yes, of course.
Marisha: (whispering) So we can all sneak by?
Sumalee: (barely audible) I would like to cast Pass Without a Trace. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. With that addition, everyone roll another stealth check, since you are taking the bonus there.
Liam: What are we going to do?
Ashly: 23.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Eh, fuck you, Gil.
Matt: Is that with the plus ten?
Ashly: Without, so I'm at 33.
Matt: But you do have heavy armor, so you do have disadvantage on your stealth checks, I remember that.
Ashly: With ten, it's 23 again.
Matt: There you go, it's still pretty good.
Sam: 39.
Matt: There's the numbers!
Liam: 26.
Marisha: 21.
Sumalee: I rolled a d20 plus ten, right? Oh, plus my-- that's why, I was like, it seems low. 27.
Matt: As it's sleeping, the heavy breathing almost audible as you curve around the space where it is, trying desperately to not step on anything that would make a large snapping or shifting sound in its presence. You watch as another comes up. (groaning)
Matt: Alongside it, (growls), awakens slightly and sits down next to it and while it's not sleeping, is keeping watch as it releases out of its jaw, onto the ground a very bloodied and battered body of some person, you cannot make any details of them at this distance.
Sam: Dead?
Matt: Definitely not living! As you begin to walk, you begin to hear the terrible crunching sound as its giant jaws snap into bone and tear into flesh.
Liam: You guys, Taliesin's a bear. (laughter)
Matt: You do manage to just skirt along the side of the bear without any notice from their side. Continuing onward. The secondary hour goes without issue, but you do begin to come upon the outskirts of your recollection of where The Sour Nest resides. You're still a good 100 or so feet away, using the trees at your disposal and you can see now the wall that matches the perimeter. It's a thin, five foot wide wall with a very flimsy rail across the top, but it is a walkway for watch guards to keep an eye out. As you glance at this distance, you can see one figure that's walking the perimeter of the top of the wall, with a heavy crossbow at the ready. They stop and look out.
Liam: How dense is the forest around this place?
Matt: It's pretty dense. The reason it took two hours to get there is because you're going through the forest. Otherwise on foot, in any sort of open scenario, it would take you half the time.
Liam: There's no manicured, open place around. It's just nestled among trees around it or--?
Matt: It looks there is manicured to be about a ten-foot distance between the wall and any of the surrounding trees, specifically to make sure that any sort of approaching individuals would be out in the open. You can see now a little bit of light is coming through. It looks like they've cleared out a bit of the canopy, not entirely, but a bit of it to also prevent any low-hanging boughs or branches to curl into the interior of the walls. It's not a massive stronghold, it looks to be approximately a little larger than the Estate Sybaritic that you were at, but it's more for function than beautiful decor. A lot of the wood seems to be old and weathered from rain and dry seasons. It's just a beige- and gray-looking establishment. Pure function.
Liam: Our lot is hidden in the trees, a ways away?
Matt: Yes. You can barely see it above the wall, but the little bit you can see has that visual and you can see it's a mixture of stone and wood. The edges of the actual structure are stone and then wood is either then placed over stone or wood is the intermediate construction material.
Ashly: The cart is not back?
Matt: From this perspective, you don't see where the cart would come in.
Liam: This is where we send an owl.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: I'm going to send him and it's going to take a moment. I want him to go around the entire place and keep an eye on it and watch it. Maybe 20 or 30 minutes. Are we good with that?
Sam: In his talons, he could bring a little mouse and drop it in there. I'm just saying.
Liam: How will we-- You and I could talk to the mouse.
Sam: We could, but the mouse couldn't talk back.
Ashly: Wait, wait, wait, what's our plan here?
Liam: Well, for now this is easy, we're going to send my owl now. If anything goes wrong, will you please tap three times on my left knee? I go blind and send Frumpkin up.
Matt: Okay, so, Frumpkin makes it up. Tree, waits a moment, tree. The one guard you see doing the perimeter notices.
Liam: I tell him telepathically to just chill and sit there for a while.
Matt: After a minute or so, the guard just keeps looking out. Jumpy. From Frumpkin's view, down inside, you can see the exterior of this. There is a large collection of brown wood kegs and a couple of small crates that contain materials that you're unaware of. You can see there are two entrances, one at the front and one at the back of the building. There are not windows, but small holes put into the wood and from the inside-- Actually, roll a perception check for Frumpkin, thank you. With advantage, due to the form, because it is with sight.
Liam: Perception, you say? 22.
Matt: 22. Looking through these curved window ports about that big, essentially large enough to look through and fire through, but small enough to not really allow a person to push through. You can see there's about two inches of stone, so it is a stone structure that has wood as a decorated exterior to it, so it's pretty solid. Down inside, you do see about six horses that are hitched on the back side of it and two carts and a third one that is currently being repaired.
Sam: Those are our carts!
Liam: How many people do I see down inside?
Matt: There's one up top on the wall. You now see with Frumpkin, thanks to that perception roll, a secondary guard on the opposite side of the wall. It looks like there are two doing a perimeter pass, matching each other so that at any given point in time they have a visual perspective on one or the other's side of the estate. You see one more guard that is inside the courtyard and it looks like two individuals that are not in general attire of the hired hands. The guards are wearing the same hooded cloak and armament as the two that were pulling the caravan up with them.
Ashly: Those are definitely the caravans? The carts that Frumpkin sees are the ones that we--?
Matt: They are very much. The one that's been broken has been carried along the way and temporarily fixed for the journey, but now has two individuals of plain clothes that are in the process of repairing the cart.
Liam: Total two up top?
Matt: Two up top, one on the inside that's armed, and two that are currently repairing the cart that appear to be unarmed. You gather from the state of repairs that the arrival was probably not that long before you arrived.
Ashly: So much for getting the jump on them.
Marisha: Three guards, two hired hands, and were there two more regular individuals?
Matt: No, there were two guards on the wall, only one you see inside the courtyard, and then two handymen. You don't really know if they work for them full-time or if they're a temporary hire, but there are two men that are not in the general attire of the rest of the guards of the estate that are currently repairing.
Liam: They definitely don't know any ice magic.
Ashly: Definitely sorcerers, definitely no ice magic. Definitely. Is it accurate to say that if we were to find Grudge Gang members that were unaffiliated, that we could pay them?
Matt: If you have enough.
Ashly: Okay, because from where I'm sitting, I don't know how this is going to go much different than what happened before. We might need more people.
Matt: The Grudge Gang, they can be expensive and also they're not keen on suicide missions if they have no stake in it. But if they have a stake in it, and you pay well enough, and you have assurances and enough to back you up, they'll go with it.
Ashly: Would the Taskers have more of a stake?
Matt: You're not sure. You've never really interacted with them much. You know of them, but because of your affiliation previously, you're pretty insulated from dealing with those folks. You grew up hating a lot of the bits of authority that existed around here and now you're finding yourself having to eat crow for a lifetime of--
Ashly: It's like my thing. Yeah, it's my new thing: eating crow.
Liam: Did you say how big the structure within the wall is?
Matt: The structure within, I'd say it's maybe 50 feet on one side, maybe 70 or 80 on the other. It's hard to really gauge the full distance. It's a fairly large estate that's been fitted into a small stronghold.
Marisha: Could make a distraction in the woods, get one of the guard's attention. Bring them in one at a time. Ambush them. Take their wardrobe.
Ashly: Or we could watch them for awhile.
Sam: You have a sword that can teleport you. You could bamf up onto the walkway with them and knock one off, and we could kill him.
Marisha: Between me and Nila, we could actually get in pretty quickly. I could get in with the sword and she could be dropped in as a mouse.
Ashly: The Iron Shepherds aren't there?
Matt: You don't know.
Ashly: Frumpkin doesn't see?
Matt: Frumpkin doesn't see them.
Sam: We can certainly kill a guard. That would give us a costume, but what does that get us?
Liam: They find a dead man on their perimeter and know that someone is fucking with them.
Sam: We can drag his body off and feed it to a bear. Steal his clothes. They'll be like "Where did he go? Where did Phil go? Oh, Phil. You know, that old story." Or we drop in mouse girl and she could run around inside and find out if her son is in there, and our friends.
Sumalee: I'm so confused. The carts that we see were the ones that I've seen people go into before, but we don't see the Iron Shepherds here.
Ashly: We don't see where the prisoners are being kept?
Matt: You don't see that, but you know. The basement below. There are three separate chambers: one that's for holding, one that's for breaking, which is torture, and the one that is for display if they have any final approvals by the Jagontoth family that has an idea of where they should be sent to.
Sumalee: This is our best chance, because there are no Iron Shepherds here.
Ashly: We don't know.
Sam: We don't know.
Liam: They could be inside. This is not any better than our chances on the road.
Marisha: Well, then we do one of two things. We either send in Nila as a mouse to scout to see if The Iron Shepherds are in there, or we wait and we watch and we see who comes in and out. Watch the guard shifts, see when the changeover is.
Sumalee: I want to go in.
Marisha: A guard shift would be the most opportune time to attack. When they're changing shifts.
Ashly: Do we have any interest in trying to get more people?
Sam: Sure. Yes. I don't know how much money we have.
Ashly: Do I have a sense of how expensive the Grudge Gang is?
Matt: You've never hired any of them, so you're not sure, but the way to ask would be to go find them.
Liam: Looking through Frumpkin's eyes, was I able to see the entrance through this wall that the guards are up top on? What's the way in here?
Matt: On the opposite end, it looks to be ladders.
Liam: No gate or doorway at all?
Matt: Oh, sorry. I thought you meant how they got up onto the wall, my apologies. There is a gate in the front and there is a gate in the back. The gate in the back is-- actually, both gates are two dark wood doors that have a brace set down that holds them in place that is held and controlled from the interior.
Liam: Solid?
Matt: Solid.
Liam: None of this?
Matt: On both sides it looks like a single brace that comes down from one side.
Ashly: The back gate, is that pressed against the forest?
Matt: Both gates have about a ten-foot open space before it reaches forest. There are stumps and there are places where trees were cleared out, specifically to give that opening so that they'd have a good idea and good visual on anybody who'd attempt to approach.
Marisha: Keg, do you know if these people would have a secret entrance into the basement, to the dungeon area? Tunnels?
Ashly: Do I have some sense of that?
Matt: You didn't work close enough with them to know of any secret passage. I mean, it makes sense. There might be one, but nothing that you've come across. If there is one, it's a well-guarded secret. You have no idea.
Ashly: Has anything changed since last I was here, that I can tell?
Matt: Not really. They're not into renovations.
Ashly: Sure.
Matt: If it works, stick with it.
Marisha: Do the guards sleep here on the estate, or do they go home at night?
Ashly: I'd assume they'd stay on the estate.
Matt: They sleep on the estate. They're paid essentially as live-in employ guards.
Ashly: I don't know how we do this.
Sumalee: I just want to see my son. I want to go inside.
Sam: You want to go in and scout around?
Ashly: How long does your magic last?
Sumalee: Good question.
Matt: For you, it's half your druid level, rounded down, so per transformation, it's about two hours.
Liam: How do you get out if you are in a mouse?
Marisha: Through a gate.
Liam: The gates are solid.
Marisha: I thought you said there was a--
Liam: That's why I asked.
Marisha: It's a solid gate?
Ashly: Well, if she were to run out into the clear area, you could use Frumpkin, as if Frumpkin was hunting.
Marisha: To pick her up. Helivac her out!
Liam: Possible.
Marisha: Owls eat mice. I'm just saying. It makes sense in nature.
Liam: Could you make yourself a very distinct looking mouse, like a shock of white hair on the mouse head or something like that? Something unique?
Sumalee: So that your friend wouldn't mistake me.
Liam: Correct.
Sumalee: I think I can. A particular type of field mouse.
Matt: You can do that.
Sumalee: I just want to get close.
Ashly: Nila, do you promise that if you see your son, you're not going to try anything on your own?
Sumalee: I know I won't succeed, so I won't. I just want to get a look.
Liam: Send in the animals.
Marisha: We'll help you find your son. Keep it together in there, all right?
Sumalee: I will.
Marisha: Now, here's the thing  goblin girl and hobo wizard have this spell where they can talk into your ear. You probably won't be able to respond back as a mouse except for maybe squeaks. Squeaks?
Sam: How about one squeak is "yes," two squeaks is "no."
Marisha: That's good.
Sam: Three squeaks is, "My son's been compromised! Please come rescue me! I'm dying in here! Please come get me!"
Sumalee: Okay, one squeak  yes. Two squeaks  no. Three squeaks--
Sam: "Oh my god, everything's gone to shit!"
Liam: Would Comprehend Languages work with a mouse, or no? That would be a different spell, right? Speak with Animals?
Matt: Comprehend Languages has to be spoken languages or written language.
Liam: I agree, yeah.
Sumalee: I'm not going to do three squeaks because I'm going to hold it together and I will come out. Right?
Liam: Yeah, K.I.T. Keep it together.
Sam: Absolutely. You are a strong, powerful firbolg. Are you sure you don't know Pumat Sol?
Ashly: I knew you were going to say it! I knew it. You were doing so well.
Sumalee: What is that?
Sam: He's one of you. There's four of him.
Marisha: "He's one of you?" That's so generalizing and demeaning.
Sam: I mean, they're kind of all the same, right?
Ashly: No!
Marisha: No!
Sumalee: Now it's demeaning.
Marisha: Matt drowns the future comments.
Liam: You must know Jareth the Goblin King? You're buddies with him?
Sam: All goblins are different.
Marisha: Question, where this collection of barrels--
Matt: Green privilege. Go on.
Marisha: The collection of barrels. Are they on the inside in the courtyard?
Matt: They're inside the courtyard, yes.
Marisha: How about we use that barrel pile as your meeting point? We'll make sure that Frumpkin's watching the barrel pile, and you get back there when you're done scouting.
Sumalee: I'm up for it.
Marisha: You got this, and we're relying on you. So, you know, don't fuck it up.
Sumalee: There is that word again. It has many meanings.
Liam: Truth.
Matt: Do you take your form, then?
Sumalee: Yes, I will take my form.
Marisha: Oh my god, this is so exciting!
Matt: Nila's large firbolg physicality blinks down to this tiny little field mouse. What characteristic of it do you want to stand out?
Marisha: I'm so happy.
Sumalee: The nice white stripe across the top, from its head all the way down.
Matt: It's like a skunk mouse. Like Stripe from Gremlins. All right, there is Nila in mouse form.
Liam: Ja, but we didn't talk about the first part. Frumpkin's got to bring her in there. Buddy, don't eat, just carry her. Stay away from the two on the top, okay? Put her by the barrels if you can. Then come back.
Matt: Frumpkin moseys up to the edge of your shoulder. Looks over towards her. Lands on the ground next to you, does a couple of hops up to you.
Sumalee: I offer my neck to pick me up.
Matt: For a brief moment you all inhale, and you see the claws have wrapped around the mouse's body. Suddenly, you're soaring through the air, a sensation you've never had before. As Frumpkin makes his way over into the trees, make a stealth check for Frumpkin, please.
Liam: As he's going, I tell him  Correction, find an out of the way place to sit and watch those barrels. Stealth, you say?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: For my owl, so I have to go to the other page. The owl page.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: Which I have ready.
Sam: You have an owl page on D&D Beyond?
Liam: 13.
Ashly: That wonderful service?
Sam: Oh god, the house is full of tabaxi!
Marisha: We sent in a laser pointer! Shit!
Matt: It's the best use of Prestidigitation. Look at the red light! As you're soaring through the boughs, the leaves and the branches soar past, the wind past your face. You get that high view of down into the courtyard as suddenly you go into a steep dive. Within a moment, you're lifted back up and then dropped onto the ground next to one of the barrels. Frumpkin takes off. The guard glances over, and is going to take a shot.
Liam: Take your shot.
Matt: Natural five! It's going to put it at a nine. I'm pretty sure that doesn't hit.
Liam: Does not hit my owl.
Matt: (arrow hissing) "Eh, shit," you hear muttered over the side. Seems bored and wanted to shoot at something that looked interesting.
Liam: You hear beside you  Arschloch.
Matt: There you are in the courtyard now.
Sumalee: I want to go toward--
Marisha: My terrible map of what I think based on what he drew.
Matt: It's not bad. Immediately glancing around, make a perception check, actually, as you are coming into the courtyard.
Marisha: Were the porthole windows in the wall, or in the actual building?
Matt: They were in the wall of the second floor.
Liam: Of the building?
Matt: Of the building, yes.
Sumalee: Shit! Six.
Matt: It's hard to see any specific areas where you can get in other than the main doors. There is a slight gap between the front door to the entrance and the floor of the interior. Other than that, scooting around the exterior, it's the only entrance you see.
Liam: P.O.V., two inches tall.
Matt: Yep, right at the bottom. This is some Honey I Shrunk the Kids shit now.
Sumalee: I should have talked to my friends before to get a plan. Nila's a little confused again.
Matt: You're looking at the building right there. You can see the two guards going along the wall. You hear the sound of work being done on the carts around the side, and all you see is that front door with that slight gap at the bottom. What are you doing?
Sumalee: I think I want to go underneath the gap.
Matt: Okay. You scoot, squeeze under, flattening out your mouse body and making your way through on the inside. The immediate warmth hits you from the cold exterior of the forest. The inside is, mostly being stone, comparatively, the temperature is much warmer in here. Coming inside, it's still a flat stone floor. It's not very well decorated at all.
Sam: So judgy.
Sumalee: Field mouse is not looking at the decoration.
Matt: In the sense that comparatively to some other places you've seen here, it's just plain, stone walls. It's very basic. It's so basic. Looking inside, there is one curved stone staircase that leads up to the second floor. There is a hall that goes to the left and further down to one side. There is a closed door that leads into an interior chamber, and that's all you can see at the moment. The spiral staircase up, the door ahead of you, and the hall that curves around the side.
Sam: You know it's down.
Sumalee: It's down where my son could be. Sorry, so I don't want to go up the spiral staircase. What are the other two options?
Sam: Around to the side or a closed door.
Liam: This floor, upstairs or downstairs.
Sumalee: Downstairs.
Marisha: Do the spiral stairs go up and down?
Matt: They only go up, yes.
Sumalee: I have to pick one of the two doors and hope that it leads down.
Matt: The door or the hallway, one of the two.
Sumalee: (sighs) I wish I had my smell pouch! (laughter)
Sumalee: I'll choose... the door.
Marisha: It's the game show host problem.
Matt: You squeeze beneath the door and immediately see a general mess room. There are a couple of tables and chairs that are pressed up against them. The smell of alcohol and stale, dried meat hits your nose and you can see immediately, sitting in two of the chairs, two members of The Iron Shepherds that are in the process of eating a midday lunch. One of them is a small male halfling. He has a weaselly-looking face. He's in the process of finishing what's comparatively to his size, a large tankard of ale, and eating some sort of heavy starch biscuit meal. Across from him, on the other side of the table, you see a human female barbarian with greasy curls of blondish hair that meet with her fur shoulder and very tattered leathers for decoration. They're both drinking and eating. Catching off the side of the ear, the halfling is seemingly mid-complaint about how, "You know, it really ticks me off that we lost some good catches on the way up here. Boss shouldn't've been so careless with that, but I mean, I'm not going to tell him that. You know, it's frustrating." The women finishes a bite and a big swig of her glass. "Yeah, well, you got to break some eggs, sometimes." Like she's making some big pontification, some big statement. He goes, "Wise words," and keeps drinking and they go into a quiet state, but there's two of them now present. You do know that at least they've returned and there are some present inside. It does not appear that there's any other entrance downward. There's a secondary door on the opposite end.
Sumalee: Go to the secondary door.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Marisha: Come on, mouse. Come on, mousey-poo. Oh! That's good!
Sumalee: 17.
Liam: Squeakers!
Matt: Okay. You dart around the side, beneath a table, beneath a bench, and around the edge. None the wiser of your presence. They give no shits. You make your way and squeeze past the door on the opposite end. There you come to a suiting room. There are weapons that are hung up on racks. There are a couple of small wooden poles with dowels in the sides that are meant to hold armor, shields and things that are there, additional crossbows and things that the guards probably utilize at different points. This is an equipment storage room. There is another door to the left. Where you entered and squeezed underneath, there is a door to the left that you can go under as well. As you leave and pass that room, you head to a back hallway to this interior part of this level. This hallway continues down and seems to meet the hall that continued around the left side, and then continues on. To the right, there is another door that leads into another chamber.
Sumalee: Got to do it. Down the hall to the right chamber. This now I know that I didn't have to go down that other hallway, the first one, because that's already met up here, right?
Matt: The other hallway would have continued this way, and the hallway you're just emerging now, meets with it. Then on that right side of it, there is a door that leads into whatever room is the next one over from that mess hall chamber. You head into that room? Heading down that room, it's a small closet-like room, and there is a trapdoor on the ground.
Sumalee: That's it, but how do I open the trapdoor now?
Sam: Maybe there's a little crack or something.
Sumalee: That's what I think is my way downstairs, so I go toward the trapdoor, see if I can't get in.
Matt: Make a strength check in your mouse form.
Marisha: Try and squeeze under? This is when a natural 20 is-- aw.
Sumalee: Nine, that's a nine.
Matt: Yeah, no. I'll put that at a minus four. Your mouse isn't strong enough to budge the door that is currently--
Marisha: There might be a hole in the floor or something else.
Sumalee: I feel like that's the key, but I want to keep looking to see how many Iron Shepherds there may be in any other location that I haven't explored.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Sumalee: 14.
Matt: As you're pushing against the door, you do hear voices muffled from below. Then you hear what sounds like a laugh, a deep billowing laugh.
Sumalee: Can I gnaw my way through the door?
Matt: You can! And in a few days, you'll probably make your way through.
Sumalee: I hear a laugh. Oh, have I heard this laugh before?
Matt: You have.
Sumalee: Shit. This is enough for me, I know they're down there. The leader of the Iron Shepherds is down there beneath that trapdoor. That's what I believe. I don't know what to do now.
Ashly: Can you guys talk to her?
Sam: We can send a Message.
Liam: After a while, yeah.
Sam: I'll send a Message saying  Are you still alive?
Sumalee: (squeaks)
Sam: She's still alive.
Matt: Sumalee, what are you going to do?
Sumalee: I am going to stick to my mission to scout. I am going to pull everything I have to go away from the trap door, knowing where it is, and I am going to scurry up and I want to explore that spiral staircase.
Matt: You're heading back into the cross-hallway. Are you following down the hall or are you heading back through the mess room?
Sumalee: I'll go the hallway this time.
Matt: Okay, you scurry around the hallway. There is nobody in there, so there is no one you are trying to hide from. You make it back to the main entryway, head to the staircase, and it takes you awhile to get up there, because the steps are about that high each. It's a little jump, and then you miss a few and have to stop and skitter back up. It takes you awhile, the better part of about 20 to 25 minutes. You eventually make your way to the second floor. Up there, you can see another hallway and as opposed to the bottom floor, which had an L-shaped hallway that went around, this one has a perimeter hall. There are those porthole windows that are carved into the stone, two on each side. As you come up to the top, the hall goes around and there's a central chamber on the inside, or chambers if they're divided. You can see immediately on the second floor, a door directly available to the one that's just north of you. You don't see any other door on this particular corridor.
Sumalee: All right, let's crawl under that door.
Matt: You scoot beneath that door and inside there, you can see a number of beds. You see four different beds that are lined up. You also find a familiar smell: other mice. Specifically, the urine of other mice.
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: You glance over and in the corner you can see one of the comforters that has been partially eaten and pulled down and tugged. There is a slight hole in the stone on the edge. You can distinctly smell that there are other mice that live in this space.
Sumalee: Is there anyone in the beds?
Matt: You don't necessarily know if they are in the beds at all-- There's nobody in the beds. Sorry. Yeah, nobody on the beds.
Sumalee: No people to be seen anywhere?
Matt: No, not in this room.
Sumalee: Okay. What else can I cover? I want to cover everything and gather as much of the layout.
Matt: We'll say as you move into one of the other rooms, the next two, you do notice that there are two other chambers. This upper floor is divided into three different chambers. There is the wide one that has the four beds, there's one that has two other beds, and there's one that has a singular large bed. This one room is almost like a master bedroom. You gather this is probably the room that Lorenzo sleeps in. It's a wider bed. It has, of all the other middling elements of comfort, this one comparatively is more extravagant, more comfortable. The layers of cushions--
Sam: A Dwendalian king.
Matt: Goddamn it, Sam. Make a perception check.
Sumalee: Good. 19.
Sam: Semen stains. (laughter)
Sam: Everywhere!
Sumalee: That's what the mice are eating.
Matt: You look up and there is a makeshift table on the side of the bed, and a stone platter that sits on there, and the remains of a meal. The smell in here is old and slightly decayed, like something had died. You glance up and you can see some a bit of graying flesh and a faint glisten of white.
Sumalee: Oh, god. I want to explore. I want to get closer.
Matt: Okay. There is an edge of the bed that you can eventually scurry up and use that to climb up onto the bed itself. The bed is bowed pretty heavy. The actual bed was wide; whatever weight it's carried from Lorenzo is sunken rather deep in there. It's a bit of a pit as you crawl across it, the blankets tossed and folded over. You make your way to the edge and look over to this platter and what you see appears to be bones. Bones that are covered in strips and elements of leftover meat.
Sumalee: Do I know what kind of meat?
Matt: There is a skull. A tiny skull.
Sam: Oh boy. That's not good.
Sumalee: An animal?
Matt: Not animal.
Sumalee: I'm almost about to squeak three times but I'm going to hold it together. I want to get out now.
Matt: You make your way down off the side of the bed and into the hallway and begin to turn around towards the staircase down. As you begin to descend the staircase, you hear heavy footsteps making their way towards the base of the stairs. (thumping sounds) You hear the shifting of leather. Make a stealth check... with the mouse's dexterity which--
Sumalee: Oh right. Oh, that's probably better with the mouse than with Nila.
Matt: What did you roll?
Sumalee: Seven.
Sam: You've got luck.
Sumalee: Oh yes, thank you! Luck! Thank you!
Matt: Go ahead. Use that luck point.
Sumalee: Using my luck point. All right come on. 20! (cheering)
Sumalee: Thank you, Sam! It's allowed!
Matt: Oh yeah, no, I know! I'm so thankful because, as you come down the staircase, you see, looming up, towards the muscled form of a tired, but intent to peruse his domain, Lorenzo, making his way up the same staircase. No glaive in his hands. As you step up, you manage to wait for the right moment, hiding in the shadow of the step. As his legs cross over, you dart down to make your way, and he doesn't see a thing. You make your way back down into the main entryway to this, back out under the main entrance under the door. You are now in the courtyard. You head on over to the barrels.
Sumalee: Yes! Squeak, squeak, squeak! Come get me!
Matt: Frumpkin has kept watch, specifically sees the mouse return. Darts down and snatches you up in your form and swoops up. Make a stealth check for Frumpkin. The same guard is getting slightly--
Liam: That's a 17.
Matt: 17. He glances over and sees Frumpkin dart down and goes "I got ya."
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: However, still--I mean good for you!
Sumalee: Good for Nila!
Matt: Still a natural two. Another bolt goes off. Frumpkin goes up into the trees, back down to you guys. They are waiting patiently, watching as the owl returns and on the ground releases the mouse form of Nila.
Marisha: (clapping) Awesome! What did you learn?
Matt: She is still a mouse.
Ashly: Can she become not a mouse?
Matt: If she wants to.
Sumalee: Yes, I would like to shift out of my mouse form.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Tell us everything!
Marisha: That was awesome!
Liam: What was?
Marisha: She didn't die as a mouse.
Liam: That's true.
Marisha: She turned into a mouse and then came back and was helped back out by your bird-cat! That's awesome!
Liam: Did you learn anything?
Sumalee: I did. It's terrible. I don't know if I saw my son. I know where they are keeping people. I know where they are keeping their prisoners. There is a trap door. You can get through it, through a mess hall and through another room and a hallway. There are two Iron Shepherds eating in the mess hall. There are, I think, many under the trap door.
Liam: Many?
Sumalee: Well, I saw beds. I saw six beds, plus a big bed. The big bed belongs to the leader.
Ashly: What do you mean you don't know if you saw your son?
Sumalee: He was eating something. I don't think it was him, but it looked like he was eating--
Liam: One of these in the mess hall?
Sumalee: No, just the leader that was eating something that didn't look like an animal. It looked small.
Ashly: Jesus Christ.
Sumalee: Like my son's size.
Liam: How many people? You said two?
Sumalee: There were six or seven beds, and I heard voices under the trap door. I know they're there. My son is not dead. He is there underneath the trap door.
Liam: I pull some paper out and say, "Can you draw these rooms?"
Sumalee: Yes, I will do my best.
Matt: I'll have an actual sketch for you next time.
Sumalee: Thank you!
Liam: That's cool.
Marisha: We know that there are members of The Iron Shepherds here, and we know they have beds here. Wait until the fall of night?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Take out the guards, kill them in their sleep?
Sam: I still would like some help, maybe one extra hand.
Ashly: How much time do we have until nightfall?
Matt: Until nightfall? I'd say with the two-hours travel from the morning, you'd have probably another six seven hours.
Marisha: How long is it to travel to get back to town?
Matt: If you are heading straight south to the town, it's maybe another hour. Well, actually a little less than that.
Marisha: Not as far as I thought.
Sumalee: I wish I knew if there was another entrance or exit underneath that trap door. I couldn't get in, but I heard the voices and I heard many people under there.
Marisha: If I know anything from my time in the criminal underworld, it's these people always have secret passageways in and out. We could do like a wide walk of the perimeter, see if we find anything out-of-place in the forest. See if there's a path, and if we don't find anything, make our way back into town. Look for a hired hand.
Liam: Well, I like the idea of an extra hand or two to back us up, but I also agree with you. We go in at night and try to take the guards out, who are watching quietly, hopefully. If that is the case, we can go in and get our friends, and if we do that successfully, then we can burn these ones in their sleep.
Marisha: Again with the burning thing.
Liam: Write what you know.
Marisha: So. Let's search around and see if we can search the woods.
Sam: Do a perimeter check?
Marisha: Perimeter check.
Sam: Looking for secret entrances!
Matt: All right. I will need both stealth checks from all of you.
Marisha: Super stealth.
Sam: Stealthy searching!
Ashly: I'm at disadvantage?
Matt: You're disadvantaged with your stealth check.
Ashly: Well, I got a one, so there's not going to get much worse than that.
Matt: As you are having this discussion, what you can only amount to be like a large pile of pots being dropped onto the ground, Keg gets her foot caught right underneath a nearby tree root and just (crashing sound effect) onto the ground. Glancing over, you immediately see that one guard that was shooting at Frumpkin go like, "Hey, hey hey hey!"
Sam: (whispering) Hey, let's run back to town.
Marisha: Run! Yeah run! We run back to town. Fuck the perimeter search.
Matt: Heading southward to town or, where are you doing?
Sam: Southward to town.
Marisha: Away directly from the building.
Matt: All right, and you guys go running as fast as you can towards town.
Ashly: Sorry sorry sorry! (laughter)
Matt: Charging through the Savalierwood to find what hopeful aid or fortune you can. And that's where we will end tonight's session.
Liam: Good game.
Marisha: Great game!
Matt: Well done, guys.
Sumalee: I didn't have it in me anymore to do any more. (laughter)
Sumalee: I've already seen such scaring things!
Matt: All right. We will pick up on that next Thursday, with both Sumalee and Ashly.
Ashly: Look who's here!
Sam: Look at this guy!
Taliesin: Goddamn it, you people! Hi!
Sam: I'm Taliesin Jaffe.
Marisha: How was it from the lobby?
Taliesin: It was about ten seconds behind, mostly. Hi guys.
Sam: Were you the little boy being eaten?
Taliesin: I was, in fact, the bear. Thank you to all those that guessed. I was the bear.
Matt: Missed an opportunity.
Taliesin: Ah not yet, not yet! Ugh! Okay.
Matt: Maybe next week.
Taliesin: Maybe next week.
Matt: Anyway, thank you guys! Amazing job! Sumalee, amazing! (cheering)
Marisha: Yes, Nila!
Matt: Thank you guys for coming along with us. For those of you who we will see at Comic-Con, we will see you there! If not, you will see our panel on Tuesday in place of Talks Machina, so you can get caught up. In the meantime, just know that we love you. Have a wonderful weekend, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: (silly voice) Dungeons and Dragons!
Matt: Like that. Before we jump into tonight's episode, we have some quick announcements to get through. First off, we have two fantastic sponsors for tonight's episode! Our good friends for the whole campaign, D&D Beyond, which we'll get to in just a second, and tonight a recurring friend who's come by to say hi for this episode, our friends at Backblaze. Sam?
Sam: Hi everyone! This time next week, we'll be doing this show in New York City!
Laura: New York City!
Sam: Get a rope. So I thought I would write Backblaze a New York-style Broadway advertisement to celebrate! Hit it, boys! (vaudeville music) Dateline, the Big Apple. 42nd Street is buzzing with the latest smash Broadway sensation: Backblaze! The dazzling new musical the Times calls: "Aces! Keen! The best cloud-based backup storage musical since Cats!" Theater critic Yav Brantley raves: "All my data, movies, music, and character sheets were copied to a secure location. And that was just act one!" Dames and fellas alike are shaking a leg to Backblaze on Broadway! With music by Andrew Lloyd Website and Cameron Mac-or-PC, the spectacle features glitzy stars like Data Rivera, Computer Streisand, and the young starlet Angela Lansbury. Backblaze will get your toes tapping with songs like "Some Enchanted Upload," "I Could Have Backed Up All Night," and "I've Grown Accustomed to Her Encryption." Plus, Blaza Minnelli and her tap dancing hard drives! Punky Winkerbean of the New York Daily News hails, "I've never seen a closing number where the lead character re-installs an operating system from a backup disc he received via the mail! I smell Tony!" The best part? Tickets are just $5 a month! That's a five-spot with no gimmicks, add-ons, or gotchas. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole to start a free trial, and let them know Crit Role sent you! Curtain up! Light the lights! Run, don't walk to Backblaze on Broadway! (applause)
Laura: That was great.
Marisha: Brava!
Sam: I like that one of your own shitty puns made you drop the voice entirely.
Marisha: Sam is my favorite when he's judging his own jokes.
Sam: Thank you, Taliesin, for this stunning Broadway style.
Matt: Its second appearance now on Critical Role.
Marisha: I feel like someone needs to name a bong Blaza Minnelli, by the way. That's a perfect bong name.
Matt: Get to it, Critters. (laughter)
Matt: And, as I mentioned before, thank you again, our friends at D&D Beyond for being our second sponsor for tonight's episode. We've mentioned before, and we'll say it again, the new Waterdeep: Dragon Heist adventure from Dungeons & Dragons that I got to consult on and am super proud of is now available on D&D Beyond, that's dndbeyond.com. It will guide players from levels one to five, it has a lot of fun events to it, and a cool heist rush-adventure story. It's really cool. After that, you can also explore the legendary Undermountain Dungeon below the city of Waterdeep, called the Dungeon of the Mad Mage, which is levels five to 20. It's quite a bulky bit! It's pretty cool, I was just in Seattle a couple of days ago at their office and I got to see some of the stuff that's in the book, it's pretty badass. They've put out one piece of art that has the mind flayer pirate captain in one of the stages, which is basically Davy Jones. It's Davy Jones, but he's a mind flayer. It's pretty great. But there's a lot of fun stuff in there, I'm excited for you guys to check it out. That will be available for preorder on dndbeyond.com right now and will be released November 2nd, so go check it out. Let's see, other announcements to get through.
Travis: Chick-a-chick ah!
Matt: Bow bow! Jesus. It's the five golden rings thing. You can't resist it. Next week, guys, we are in New York. We are at New York Comic Con with our live show next Thursday. Tickets are still available. It's at the United Palace in Washington Heights next Thursday the 4th. They're available now via Ticketmaster. You don't need a badge to the convention to attend, it's completely offsite and a separate entity, so come join us! If you're attending New York Comic Con be sure to pick up a presale ticket to come meet us at the convention as well, we have panels going on, it's going to be crazy. You can find all the events and information for it at critrole.com/events. We also have a bunch of shows that are all happening now!
Travis: Yeah, man!
Matt: All developed and put to the test and given creation from our fantastic creative director, Marisha Ray.
All: Yay!
Liam: Yaas, queen! She's working her butt off.
Marisha: I'm so tired.
Liam: Working her butt off.
Matt: I know. The latest episode of Between the Sheets, starring our fantastic Travis Willingham, aired this Monday-- it was great-- is now available on YouTube. If you didn't get a chance to see it then or subscribe to our Twitch, it's on YouTube now for free.
Marisha: Go watch it!
Matt: Go watch it, it's really great.
Sam: Or listen to it.
Matt: Yes, that's right, the podcast as well.
Travis: They might get me confused with you just because our voices are so--
Matt: It's true, that happens all the time. Laura will be the next guest on Between the Sheets next week, so you get to look for that next Monday on twitch.tv/criticalrole.
Laura: I wonder what I said.
Marisha: Luckily we recorded it all.
Matt: There you go. That'll be live at 7 00pm this coming Monday at twitch.tv/criticalrole, or you can watch it on YouTube the following Wednesday. Our newest show, All Work No Play, are these two buggers who have returned, too.
Sam: That's tomorrow night.
Matt: Tomorrow night, also at 7 00pm Pacific here at twitch.tv/criticalrole. Look for that, it's a continuation of their grand podcast from ages past. It's real special.
Liam: We're going to jump in the chat.
Sam: We're going to jump in the shat?
Liam: We're going to jump in the shat.
Travis: That's a good activity.
Liam: We're going to shat in the chat tomorrow night during the show.
All: Shat chat.
Matt: I'm sure that's an old AOL chat room that no one wants to go to. But yeah, tomorrow night, look forward to that. Let's see, merch, Laura, you have some announcements?
Laura: Yeah. Oh my gosh. We have our first Keyleth shirt.
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: It's out?
Laura: It's in the store right now! There's two styles; we got our "Sleeves are Bullshit" shirt-- why don't we have it?
Taliesin: We did have one.
Marisha: We did have one.
Sam: Where is it? I still haven't seen it!
Laura: We'll bring it out during the break; it's really cool. Go check it out at Crit Role: shop.critrole.com. You know, they've got one that's sleeveless, that's a girl's, and then one that's unisex that's not as sleeveless. And those are pre-order, so if you order them, they're going to ship in two weeks, so that means they're not sold out immediately, so that's really great for people that want to actually get them. We also have our Deven Rue maps. By the way, that Keyfish-- this Keyfish-- was designed by Lauryn Ipsum, who's phenomenal and we know her from her work on the artbooks. We have our mini Yasha bust in the store right now; we have the Wildemount dice that are still in the store right now, and there's other stuff like a bumper sticker that you can proclaim-- I keep talking about the bumper sticker.
Marisha: Traveler is my co-pilot.
Travis: Trying to spread that good word.
Laura: That's right.
Taliesin: You want to see one on the 405 one day, don't you?
Laura: I do! I really want to see the bumper sticker.
Travis: Just run up and bumper tap them.
Taliesin: They get out and they see Laura and go, "Ah!"
Liam: Do I see the shirt waiting in the wings right now? We do.
Marisha: Yes! Hey, Vinny!
Laura: This is the uni-sexy one. It's so uni-sexy.
Sam: Oh, wow.
Laura: (British accent) Look, I don't know if you can see it, but it's a goldfish with little dice trailing behind, and then there's a special little treat at the bottom that says, "It's fine, we're gods."
Sam: Oh, that's so cool!
Liam: That fish looks so disturbed.
Taliesin: It is a very disturbed fish, yeah.
Marisha: That fish has instant regrets.
Travis: Yeah, it's like it jumped off a cliff and killed myself for no reason.
Marisha: "What did I do?"
Travis: With nothing achieved.
Marisha: We just lost money on that death. It was a very expensive death.
Travis: I loved it. So good.
Matt: All right then, guys. I believe that's the end of my announcements, unless you have anything to add to that. I think it's time for us to get into this heroic adventure, and as a celebration of other real heroes in this world, some by the name of Christine. Let's take our way down to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [TV static, click] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Matt: Welcome back. Last we left off, The Mighty Nein had been following a story thread. They had encountered some pieces of paper that alluded to a mystical orb that they had previously encountered that seemed to be related to something about your patron, Fjord. After unknowingly having a vision and absorbing this orb within yourself, you completed your business up in the Empire, and following information in this note, you made your way south outside of the Dwendalian Empire to the Menagerie Coast to the city of Nicodranas, which was home-- and is home-- to Jester.
Marisha: Freudian slip.
Matt: Yeah. Bought some pets along the way, lost some pets along the way, but you met the Ruby of the Sea. You aided her in absolving herself of the stress of having a really, unfortunately aggressive admirer who was becoming a serious problem, so you told him to stop by cutting off his hand and sending him away forever.
Sam: Yeah, and killing all of his friends.
Matt: Then you went to inquire the docks at night, looking for an individual named Marius LePual.
Marisha: It's bad when you say it like that.
Travis: The recap really sticks it in and turns it.
Matt: You stealthed you way there, began to formulate a plan to listen in. Unfortunately, due to a not quite as quiet attempt at entering the water, garnished their attention. A not quite effective attempt at deceiving them triggered them to realize that they were being followed and proceeded to try and cover their tracks and take out those who would be following them. That led to a scuffle in the battlefield of the docks here in the wharf where you alerted the guards, managed to take down these shadowy figures, captured Marius LePual, and hijacked their ship called The Mist, where you managed to leave the docks out into the night air, the moonlit open night. You had just managed to take down a few figures that remained on the ship, a few things were burned in the process. The chaos was palpable. Caduceus managed to swim out to you guys in time to make it onto the ship, and where we left off, you all had taken a moment, and some of you began to head back into the ship to see what lied within. Mighty Nein, what would you like to do?
Liam: Well, you know, all told, I think that went very well. It could've been worse; they attacked us, unprovoked. I know that we were not exactly normal-seeming to them, but we did not get threatening with them. They made the first move, and it just unraveled from there, what can you do? Sometimes, you just have to follow the cabbages in front of you.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Yeah. I'm at the helm. Is there anybody down below, seeing about that?
Matt: Jester, I think, was rushing down.
Laura: I was on my way down, right when I stuck an axe in the back of a guy's head.
Liam: What did you say?
Marisha: That's right.
Laura: I accidentally stuck an axe in the back of a guy's head. I didn't mean to though, I was aiming for his shoulder.
Marisha: You can Speak with Dead though, right? Is that something you can do?
Laura: I can do that.
Marisha: Maybe that's how we interrogate him?
Laura: I don't know if I have it prepared, though.
Sam: We could sleep on it.
Matt: Who's heading down?
Travis: Yeah, I was going to say, I'm at the helm. Beau, if you'll stay with me. We need to--
Laura: I do have it prepared!
Travis: We need to check the ship for damages because we tried to blow it up a couple of times, and then if the rest want to head down and see what's below.
Sam: I'll come with.
Matt: Jester and Nott? Who else?
Liam: I will go down as well.
Matt: Okay, and Caleb. Caduceus, you're staying up. Yasha's--
Taliesin: I am going to just sit at the front of the ship, wet, and I'm not in any of this right
Travis: Any chance you want to come up and help me? I pull a big piece of splintered wood out of my forehead, throw it over to the side. In time, I'm good.
Marisha: I'll help you out.
Travis: Thanks.
Matt: Yasha steps over to you, Caduceus, and she puts a hand to your shoulder and she goes, "Glad you're okay."
Taliesin: You keep leaving.
Matt: "You keep finding me. Or they do."
Taliesin: I think you might have the right idea.
Sam: (whispering) Oh no.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm just going to sit.
Matt: Yasha stands up, looks back towards you guys, goes over and takes a rope and begins helping you guys hold onto the sails, watching you and figuring out what to do. None of you have ever really run a boat before.
Marisha: Yasha's following me? I'm like  You can follow me, but I'm just--
Matt: Well, she's just helping you out with whatever you need on the ship.
Travis: I'll bark out  Make sure the sails are open, tighten all the everything off, and then check the exterior of the ship if you can just for breaks in the wood, fire marks, any damage that you can see.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: Okay, glancing over the side where the Fireball had impacted, a lot of the wood is charred black. There is visible sign of burning. Nothing is on fire, but there was a flash-burn. Some of the wood right around the edge of the deck is broken and splintered in a bit and part of the sail underneath was burned and singed. Not enough to the point where it tore it away from the mast. But there is visible damage, but nothing that impedes your movement. Just more aesthetic damage.
Marisha: It just looks more dope now.
Travis: More dope?
Marisha: Yeah, we look like badasses. I think it makes the ship look cooler.
Travis: Nice.
Marisha: Yeah, we look rad.
Travis: Less fancy will actually do us some good in these waters, so that's good.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You guys head down. Jester, as you're the first person down, the first thing you notice is at the bottom of the steps, you see the fellow with the axe stuck in him and he's on his stomach and slowly crawling forward.
Laura: He's not dead!
Sam: Heal him!
Laura: I'm out of spells.
Sam: Take the axe out of him.
Liam: Is it better to pull it out or leave it in place?
Laura: Is it like a puncture wound? Can I cast--
Sam: I'll ask him. Would you like us to leave the axe in or take it out?
Matt: He looks over his shoulder. You see the blood streaks down the side of his face and-- (groaning) begins to crawl quicker away from you.
Laura: No, no, no. I hold onto his ankles.
Matt: (groaning) His fingernails are scraping against the wood floor.
Laura: I know it's really terrible. I'm sorry that I did this, I hope you're okay.
Sam: Can't you do healing or anything?
Laura: I mean I can cast Spare the Dying, but he's already not--
Sam: Spared?
Laura: Yeah  dying.
Matt: That's when he passes out.
Laura: I cast Spare the Dying.
Matt: Okay. He's just like, "Ugh."
Liam: We're just going to leave hole in his head like Phineas Gage?
Laura: Well, I think, you know, maybe Deuce could do something about it?
Sam: Do you want me to go get Deuce?
Laura: Yeah. See if he'll come down here for a moment.
Sam: All right, I'll run up there and get him.
Liam: I'm just going to move the axe head a centimeter or two.
Laura: Don't move the axe! What if his brain starts leaking out?! Don't do it!
Sam: If you press on it, can you get his hand to move?
Travis: Give it a little flick.
Laura: That's so messed up.
Matt: Nott, as you rush up to the shadowed deck of The Mist, the moonlight still coming down, you can see the outer shape of the still-damp Caduceus, legs tucked into his shoulder, leaning back against the inside of the left hand of the deck, or what would be considered the port side.
Sam: Mr. Clay? You look-- are you okay?
Taliesin: I don't know. It's been a day. It's hard to gauge.
Sam: Yeah. Are you cold?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: I have this cloak that would maybe fit one of your shoulders?
Taliesin: I'm going to be okay.
Sam: Well, if you can muster the strength, it would be great if you could come downstairs and maybe help save an individual's life?
Taliesin: I'll get up and go down. See what's down there.
Matt: The quarters of this ship, it's designed to be not a comfortable ship, but a fast ship. The crew's quarters and the deck below was called-- for bigger ships, it'd be the gun deck, but it's where the cabin is. It's pretty tight for a human. Caduceus, you're have to really bend and stoop down to make your way through. But as you come down, you find both Jester and Caleb currently sitting around an unconscious enforcer, one of the cloaked figures that was involved with the crew that previously had this ship.
Laura: He got an axe in his head.
Taliesin: It's probably good you didn't pull it out.
Laura: Yeah, see!
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to tap him on the head and cast Healing Word at 3rd-level.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 11 points right there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: As soon as Cad's hands start to glow, I yank the axe out of his head.
Matt: Okay, you yank it out and there's a streak of blood and you watch as what would be the open axe wound begins to slowly seal itself up to the point where it's still going to be healing for a while, but it scabbed over instantaneously.
Sam: Look, you just saved a life! That's good news, right?
Taliesin: Well, he'll be dead eventually. I'm going to head back upstairs.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Fuck me! Oh god! Help!
Matt: Caduceus heads back upstairs.
Liam: Caduceus is America tonight.
Taliesin: Too real.
Matt: The person comes to consciousness immediately as the axe is pulled. (gasping) You get a better look at him now. You can see scruffed, probably unshaven for the past two weeks, coming out in tufts. It looks like there are parts where the hair isn't growing in because there's scarring or some sort of heavy acne at a younger age prevented those follicles from developing. Pockmarked face, weathered from sun and perpetual sunburns. You can see the actual hair itself is a matted, greasy mess of a light brown color. Looks like the kind of person you'd imagine lives at sea and not in a very monetarily comfortable income.
Laura: Oh hi, bud.
Matt: "What's that? Who the fuck are you?"
Liam: Jester, this is your axe.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: Ja.
Laura: So we have this ship now, but I just wanted to say: Hi, welcome to the crew! You know, we're The Mighty Nein! All your friends are gone right now, but it's because you attacked us first, really.
Matt: "Just following orders, sorry."
Laura: No, see! That's okay! I understand following orders.
Sam: Uh-huh.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Sam: Yes, we are a tight crew that follows orders as well. Caleb is our leader, and we--
Laura: Hmm.
Sam: We are enforcers of justice and saw that justice needed to be done.
Matt: "I don't know anything about that."
Laura: What were you guys doing?
Matt: "We were delivering a message, picking up a message."
Laura: That's it?
Sam: A whole boat just for a message?
Matt: "Well--" In his position right now, he's being trepidatious in giving you information. The more you're prying, the more he's closing off and his words are trailing off. "I don't--"
Liam: Well, buddy, we're at sea now. We are not at the dock any more. You are trapped with us. We have questions and I don't want to alarm you. None of us want to put an axe in your head or anything.
Laura: No, I don't want to do that. That was really sad.
Liam: Right, we want to just get along. We're all tired. I'm tired, but I'll go to work if I need to.
Travis: Oh jesus christ! (laughter)
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Travis: Oh my god!
Laura: That's so terrible!
Travis: Fuck!
Travis: But!
Marisha: But!
Marisha: I was going to say, that's how we know Caleb is serious! But!
Travis: We'll be listening to him lift that rocking chair outside.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18. His whole body tenses, his eyes dart around the three of you and then slackens and he exhales in a sense of resignation. "You know what? Fuck, I'll tell you what you want. Anything you need to know. Just-- can you let me go? Drop me back off in town or something?"
Laura: Yeah, I think that seems like something we're going to do.
Liam: The easy route is what I'm talking about. Good decision.
Matt: "Yeah, well, it's not worth it." He sits up and you see that he's bruised and even though he's been healed, he's not used to the aftermath of physical confrontation the way you guys are. He's like (groaning), leans up against the table a bit and puts his back against it so he's leaning against the leg and top of it. (groaning)
Laura: Who do you work for?
Liam: We have a lot of questions, so tell us everything.
Matt: "This is The Mist. We're a sister ship to Captain Avantika's. Our captain was Captain Jawgrasp, but I take it you probably killed him too."
Laura: He attacked us first, you know.
Matt: "Well, it makes sense. We're not supposed to leave any survivors who've seen what they shouldn't have seen. General business."
Laura: Oh, really? Why?
Matt: "Just don't want to be followed. It's part of our directive."
Sam: Are you pirates?
Matt: "More or less. We'll just say we're not keen on the taxation and enforcement of the Concord on these seas. So we do what we feel is necessary."
Laura: I like it.
Sam: Freedom fighters.
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: You said that you're sister ship to Captain Avantika?
Matt: "The Squalleater, that's her ship."
Laura: The Squalleater.
Matt: The Squalleater.
Liam: The Squalleater.
Sam: Ah yes, we did know that.
Laura: Yes, we did.
Liam: Gesturing to the desk and all the burned papers: What's all this, then? What was this that we can't read anymore?
Matt: "Primarily it was maps to locations of things that were important. For our travels."
Liam: Like?
Matt: "Like things that-- I wasn't the navigator! I didn't know specifically, but I was told to burn everything."
Laura: Is there some stuff you didn't get to?
Matt: You rummaged through and found a few things. Most of it's scrap and ash, or blank sheets that look like they were scribbled notes in a code that you don't really understand. This is the only visible thing.
Travis: Oh yes, Matthew! Do us right! Ooh!
Liam: Take care of him. I pull out the book and I begin to do the ritual for Comprehend Languages to see if that will help with the code. It's a long shot, but I'll give it a shot.
Laura: What was the message you were trying to get?
Matt: "We were sent by Avantika to head back to Nicodranas, and we're supposed to wait for about a week or two. Interface with that guy Marius. Either he was going to pay us back for the money, if he didn't get what he was supposed to find, and if he did have what he was supposed to deliver-- one of the things I burned was a drawing of it, it was an orb thing. We were supposed to take that back to Avantika."
Sam: Where is Avantika?
Matt: "Avantika's on-- what's the island called? I don't remember. Don't fucking remember what it was called. It was on there! That's it right there."
Sam: Is it a secret island?
Matt: "It's not a secret; it's just mostly avoided. It's near one of the reef clusters of the Lucidian Ocean, this side of the coast."
Laura: Do you see it, Caleb? Do you see it?
Liam: I'm doing a ritual spell for 11 minutes.
Laura: Do you think Mending would help fix that, or would it make the piece of paper come together?
Travis: Yeah, great fucking call.
Laura: Mending!
Matt: All right, you do the Mending cantrip, and because I do not have a completed map for you, we'll use our imagination.
Liam: D&D!
Matt: It completes a much larger piece of paper, that you think would have a bunch of other either islands or the things around it. It looks like it may have been a much larger size. Unfortunately, the ink does not come through on it.
Marisha: But we still have the ink of that.
Matt: You still have the ink of that, yeah. It's a large piece of paper that is mostly blank, and then there's that one section that is stained with the burned edges and has the actual drawing.
Liam: Oh wow, so it spread out blank from-- that's cool.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: So it's an island.
Liam: The code was where? You said there was a code, I thought?
Matt: There was some things with bits of coded language on it, it looked like. But those have also been burned, and they're in chunks. You do your--?
Liam: Yeah, it takes ten-ish minutes to do Comprehend Languages, and if I'm touching--
Matt: Is it ten minute casting time?
Liam: It is ten minutes plus one minute as a ritual. So yeah.
Matt: As a ritual, it's whatever the duration is--
Liam: Casting time  one action, plus ten minutes.
Matt: One action plus ten minutes, okay. There you go. Then it would be a total of 11 minutes. All righty. While you're working on that, you guys can continue to pry, if you want.
Laura: If we drop you off, are you going to change your name or something? Are you afraid Avantika is going to come and kill you?
Matt: "I mean, probably lay low for a while. There's other jobs out there. Find my way back to Darktow eventually."
Sam: Tell us about-- oh, sorry.
Laura: No, you go. You go next.
Sam: Oh, all right. Tell us about Avantika.
Matt: "She's a weird one. Her whole crew, they've got some weird mystical thing they're obsessed with."
Laura: Like the ball? Is it the ball?
Matt: "That's one of the things we're supposed to be picking up, yeah. They've got some creepy religious thing. We work for her. She hired us as the sister ship out of Darktow and we've been doing errands for her."
Laura: Docktow?
Matt: "Darktow, yeah."
Laura: What's that?
Matt: "It's generally the hub of most unlawful activity out here. Used to belong to the Concord, but about 50 years back, it was taken by people of my professional interests and they haven't been able to take it back since."
Liam: You're talking about a place, an island, a building?
Matt: "Yeah, it's an island."
Sam: Wait, we already know what the islands are. Swavain Islands. I can't even read my writing. That's where we were told Avantika is.
Laura: Is that what this is? Swavain Islands?
Matt: "Swavain Islands is the whole series of islands."
Travis: It's a cluster out in the Lucidian Ocean.
Marisha: And Darktow is also an island?
Matt: "Darktow is one of the islands far, far west of here, though."
Laura: Why does it say Y, Y, Y, Y?
Sam: I think those could be little pointers.
Matt: "I'm not the navigator, but I remember going in and out. There were little markers set on areas where we were supposed to-- like visual guides if we were on the right paths and to help us get through the reef."
Laura: Because it's on the other side of the reef.
Matt: "And to go around is another hundred miles to your trip."
Liam: And you've made this trip yourself?
Matt: "Yes. Well, we've made to and out once. We were going to go back after this."
Liam: What are the risks one would encounter trying to traverse this area?
Matt: Are you still working on your spell?
Liam: Oh.
Sam: Do you live on the island? Does Avantika live on the island?
Matt: "Oh, god no. No one's going to fucking settle on that thing. It's fucking cursed."
Sam: The island is cursed?
Matt: "Yeah!"
Sam: So she docked there for a while, or--?
Matt: "It's supposed to be something there that she wants. Well, she's waiting on us to get back with whatever we're supposed to pick up, and if they didn't have it there, then we were supposed to try and find out where the next one might possibly be."
Sam: The next one?
Laura: On the hunt for ancient relics.
Sam: It's a dangerous game. Who knows how it will end?
Laura: Only two will find out.
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: Yeah!
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Travis: Jesus! Maybe I jump overboard.
Sam: Can you tell us, because this is a bit shredded, you were here before, right? You were here?
Laura: That's the island? That's where the island is, then?
Matt: "I think that's the island, yeah, it's mostly jungle-covered."
Sam: Did the wind blow you out, or did you fight against the wind to leave? Was this east, is this west, where is this?
Matt: "I don't know." You get the sense the more he looks at it, one, he's definitely not the navigator of the ship's crew, and probably can't read.
Laura: What's your name?
Matt: "Gallan."
Laura: Gallan.
Matt: "Gallan Wesmen."
Laura: I like your name.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Have you heard of The Traveler, Gallan?
Matt: "I've met many travelers."
Laura: Have you heard of The Traveler?
Matt: His eyes go a little narrow. He's like, "Oh no, not another one."
Travis: Another one what?
Laura: Do you want maybe a brochure? I could tell you about him.
Matt: "I'm okay."
Laura: You could spread his name wherever you go.
Matt: "I'll think on it."
Laura: All right.
Sam: You've met Avantika, right? Sorry to interrupt. I don't want to cut off your weird evangelizing, but you've met Avantika?
Matt: "I've seen her. I've not actually spoken to her, that was mainly--"
Sam: Have you seen her use any magic?
Matt: "No. She mainly stays on the ship."
Laura: What does she look like?
Matt: He scratches his head. "She's elf, I think. She's got them elven features, the pointy ears, the whole brown-red skin. Big hair that comes in strings. Sleeveless coat, high collar, big scarf thing."
Marisha: I don't know, I got distracted by the sleeveless coat aspect. That's all I heard.
Travis: When he gives descriptions and we don't fucking writes notes, it bites us in the ass.
Matt: "I didn't get all the details. I wasn't one of the important ones."
Laura: You should be important!
Sam: You survived this brutal attack. You are extremely strong.
Matt: He's sitting there going, "Yeah. Yeah you're right."
Sam: Everyone else died. You had an axe in your head!
Matt: "Fuck them! Fuck them! I'm a survivor."
Sam: You had an axe in your head! You survived!
Matt: "I had a what?" He reaches back and is like-- There's like still blood back there, of course, and he's like, "I'm okay? Is it bad?"
Sam: It's nothing to you. It's nothing! Missed all the major organs. (laughter)
Sam: You're fine.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: What else do we need to know? Anything? How about this ship, you know this ship? Is there anything funky on the ship? How much food stores do we have? How many days of food and water?
Matt: "Well we'd just stocked up so we've got probably about two weeks of tack and water and some ale below."
Laura: Do you know how to sail?
Matt: "I know how to repair. I was more of the ship carpenter."
Sam: You know what we should do first? Since we have a carpenter on board?
Laura: What?
Sam: On the side of the ship it says "The Mist."
Laura: We should change the name.
Sam: We should get some new letters going.
Laura: Like Mysterious Ball. The Mysterious Ball.
Sam: Yes, The Mistress of the Loins. I don't know, what would be a good name?
Laura: The Mistake.
Sam: That's not bad.
Travis: Kind of appropriate?
Marisha: The Mistake!
Matt: That's really on brand!
Sam: We took The Mist, and now it's The Mistake.
Liam: Did my spell trigger yet?
Taliesin: There's at least five jokes in there.
Matt: I'll say sure. Technically ten minutes is a while, but we'll say between the small talk, you've completed your spell.
Liam: Only because I want to say, the name as it is, is fairly appropriate. We might want to change it to change up our appearance and stuff. Do you know what Mist means in Zemnian?
Sam: Fog?
Liam: It means shit.
Laura: Does it?
Liam: Yeah, manure. Crap, it means crap. It's pretty on brand for us, honestly.
Laura: I don't want to ride around in The Shit.
Liam: You've been doing it for several months now, Jester.
Laura: You just draw it, you don't live in it.
Liam: We're going to add on to-- Mistake is funny, too. I like that. Can I read this code?
Matt: Sure. With the slips that you have, you read through it and it seems to be a list of supplies that were supposed to be purchased. A lot of them seem to be heavy bits of rope, chains, climbing pitons. You see ball bearings, torches. You're not quite sure why this was encoded, per se, and only for the slips that you have that are visible, but it's mainly just a list of materials.
Liam: Okay. See these squiggles here? This is either just supplies, or maybe they are trying to make booby traps for their island. I don't know.
Sam: Are there any intact maps, like larger scale maps of the ocean?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. You look around you and there is ash everywhere. Even the air has bits of ash that are still floating in the space. They burned-- through the purpose of that battle while you guys were dealing with all of that, this guy was in here torching everything. You're lucky to have gotten that bit.
Laura: Man, you did a really good job with what you were told to do.
Matt: "Thanks. I take pride in my work." He's still touching the wound in the back of his head, unsettled.
Liam: Little ridge that he's not used to.
Sam: Caduceus, are you down here?
Taliesin: Oh no, I'm not. Just me enjoying a head wound.
Laura: Well, okay, I'm going to go upstairs.
Sam: All right. Is he tied up? Are you tied up?
Laura: He's not tied up.
Matt: "No. I can-- come on."
Liam: Do you have any weapons left on you?
Matt: You look over, and he had a sword. The thing he was swinging and attacking you guys with in the doorway earlier.
Liam: Does he have it now, or has he chucked it?
Matt: No, it tumbled down the stairs when to took an axe to the head.
Laura: I will take that.
Matt: As you're taking it he's like, "Sorry about that."
Laura: It's okay.
Matt: "Profession."
Sam: Yeah, yeah.
Liam: That's water under the bridge. We just don't want any new problems, yeah? And there's a lot of us here; so it would be foolish to do anything, right?
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: You have now officially been conscribed to The Mighty Nein--
Laura: Temporarily.
Sam: --for the purposes of this sea voyage, at the end of which, you will be compensated for your duties. If you kill any of us, you will be thrown overboard.
Laura: If you jump overboard, we'll jump after you, and we'll bring you back.
Sam: Also, as a result of us not mostly knowing how to sail, you are also the first mate.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Congratulations.
Travis: That's a big promotion for him. Carpenter to first mate!
Marisha: He's kind of the worst.
Sam: Congratulations!
Matt: "Okay."
Sam: Welcome to The Mighty Nein.
Liam: You just got a come-up.
Matt: "Thank you. Should I go get my stuff, then?"
Sam: You're the first mate! Why don't you give us an order?!
Matt: "Ah!" He points towards you and, "Um." He's not a very intelligent fellow. "Go... fetch me some... dried meat."
Laura: Yeah, I don't feel doing that. Maybe you should just go upstairs.
Matt: "I'm going to go lay down for a minute."
Laura: Hmm, okay. I'm just going to tie your hands while you're sleeping, though, okay?
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: All right.
Matt: You head down to the cabin quarters to one of the small cots that are there, essentially, and tie him down. He's like, "Mmm." He passes out; he's exhausted.
Laura: Poor guy!
Liam: You got a new pet.
Sam: Let's call him--
Sam: Professor Thaddeus!
Marisha: Professor Thaddeus!
Taliesin: The second!
Marisha: The second!
Laura: What was his actual name?
Sam: Gallan.
Laura: Gallan.
Matt: G-A-L-L-A-N.
Liam: Thaddeus Klossowski von Musel.
Marisha: The second.
Matt: All right. While that's happening, the rest of you on the surface, where are you taking it?
Travis: Time of day-ish?
Matt: Time of night-ish.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Yeah, it's maybe 2 30, 3 00 in the morning, at this point.
Travis: Straight out from shore, full sail. Just trying to put distance between us and the coast.
Matt: Got you. Okay.
Travis: I know we have time to decide on our route.
Matt: Yeah. But you just take some distance in case of pursuit? Got you. It's a pretty quick ship. You can see why it was used as a messenger ship. You're used to cargo ships and things that are used for shipping, so it's nice to have one that's designed just for speed.
Travis: Ooh, sports car! Where is Marius?
Matt: He's tied to the mast right now.
Travis: Oh, that's right!
Marisha: Oh, that's right!
Matt: He's fallen asleep as well because he's just been there while you guys were doing your thing. No one is paying attention to him, and he's had a long day. He's like, (snoring).
Travis: Not to put you too at ease, navigating was never really my thing, either. I'm better than most, but I do need to decide on where we're going.
Marisha: Right.
Travis: If we want to use Marius, we're going to have to wake his ass up and ask him some questions.
Marisha: You want me to wake him up?
Travis: Yeah, wake him up.
Marisha: All right, okay.
Travis: Not-- (stammers)
Marisha: (impact)
Matt: "Ugh!"
Marisha: That was gentle, right?
Matt: "What was that all about?"
Marisha: Good morning.
Matt: "It's still dark."
Marisha: Don't think that far into it, man. It was a cool line.
Matt: "Okay. Was that necessary?"
Marisha: Probably not.
Travis: Yeah, probably not. Listen, we'll let you go back to your slumber right quick. Where were you headed with this ship? I assume to meet up with Avantika, yeah?
Matt: "I wasn't headed anywhere. I was going to give back their money and send them off on their way, and you attacked, and they weren't going to let me stay behind, I guess."
Travis: Right. But now we've changed your plans, yes? You're with us?
Matt: "Apparently!"
Travis: And Avantika needs the sphere, correct?
Matt: "Well, I don't have it!"
Travis: No, but I do. Do you know where she is? I'll reach behind my back and use Minor Image again and show the sphere.
Matt: Right. "I don't really-- I was just hired to pass on a letter and wait for some sort of an arrival of that, and then it never came, and then I asked for an extension in case it was just taking its time to get there. And then, never showed up. So I had to return the money, unfortunately. But you know, I like keeping a reputation as a reliable messenger."
Travis: Who were you going to give this to?
Matt: "I was going to give it to-- what's his name, Captain Jawgrasp. Big fella, you cut the fuck out of and kicked him off the side of the docks."
Travis: Right.
Marisha: How many times have you worked with Jawgrasp or Avantika in the past?
Matt: "This is the second time."
Marisha: And what were you doing for them before?
Matt: "Well, before they found me on the side of the docks here at the wharf and they asked me if I knew the quickest way to get this letter up north to Shadycreek Run."
Travis: Shadycreek Run. Where we were. You wouldn't happen to know where Jawgrasp called home, would you? Or where he was heading next?
Matt: "Not a fucking clue, none of my business. I don't ask questions of those who are, you know, a full foot and a half taller than me and can probably wipe the floor with me. I just nod, take my money and do the job. Once again, I have a reputation." (sniffs)
Travis: Do you feel comfortable on a ship?
Matt: "I feel comfortable all right, you know, when I can fucking move! Sorry, sorry, I'm just a bit grouchy."
Travis: We are kind of limiting him. He's got big poofy sleeves and everything, he's not going to swim anywhere.
Marisha: Well that's his own damn fault he has poofy sleeves.
Travis: You could rid him of that, I hear sleeves are...
Marisha: Fucking bullshit.
Matt: "I paid good money for this shirt. Please don't do anything--"
Marisha: (ripping) (laughter)
Matt: You rip them underneath the ropes as he is tied to the mast.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You start tearing them off in chunks. He's like, "No! No!"
Travis: Hey, welcome to the crew of the-- well, we'll have to rename this thing. And I'll summon the falchion and just swipe through the ropes.
Matt: "Ah!" He starts pulling up the scrap of his sleeves. "Do you have any idea how much I paid for this?"
Marisha: Throw them overboard. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm going to remember this."
Marisha: Yeah, you should.
Matt: He combs his hair over.
Marisha: It was a pretty fucking dope thing. Okay. Here is the thing, this reputation you keep talking about? That you are so deeply concerned about--
Matt: He pulls a tooth out.
Travis: Oh, pal.
Marisha: Aw. Can I have it? (laughs) Deflect missiles!
Travis: That seems unnecessarily adept.
Matt: Roll a d10, see how many-- no.
Marisha: Why are you so concerned with this reputation of yours? How long have you been running around in the criminal underworld is what I'm saying.
Matt: "Not criminal, I'm not a criminal. I do business with whoever pays well. I don't ask questions, so I don't know if I've done any crimes."
Travis: I can't tell, I don't know. Is he an innocent middleman that doesn't know what he's shipping or is it just--
Marisha: No, I've met this type. He plays stupid, that way if people start asking questions you've got disbelief.
Matt: "Exactly! So if I don't know technically who I'm involved with and what the larger scale of my work is, if anybody starts asking questions, I'm as dumb as the rest of them. It's got me this far."
Marisha: Still doesn't mean you're not a criminal though.
Matt: "That's for the people to decide."
Travis: Listen, what we're going to ask for is that you be as forthcoming as you possibly can be. Would you mind walking over to the side of the ship there, and tell me how far Nicodranas looks right now?
Matt: He goes over and looks. "Can't see it."
Travis: Yeah. Can't see it, can you? Stuck with us. So I'm going to need everything that comes out of your mouth to be the truth.
Matt: "It has been the truth! Why am I lying to you right now, you've destroyed my shirt, you've made me lose a tooth--"
Travis: My goodness, he is very sensitive about this. I'm just trying to set the tone for the ship.
Matt: "Look, I'm a very anxious fellow. And when things go ass up-- I'm having a breakdown right now."
Travis: Do me a favor. Go below decks and try and find us some drink, will you?
Matt: "Okay, sure, fine, I'll do that for you. Whatever you want."
Marisha: Take a little walk, we'll continue talking when you get back.
Travis: Jeez, yeah seriously.
Marisha: God, I hate him.
Matt: Makes his way below deck and passes by these guys.
Laura: Hi!
Matt: "Hi."
Travis: Are they coming up?
Matt: Yeah, they all come out and join you on the deck.
Sam: We found some crucial information.
Travis: Oh?
Laura: That guy who I stuck an ax in is actually still alive.
Travis: No kidding!
Laura: Yeah, Caduceus saved his life and he's really nice. He's a pretty nice fellow.
Sam: He's your first mate now. And--
Travis: Ax-head is?
Sam: Yeah, don't worry we took the ax out.
Laura: Well, Caleb did technically.
Sam: And we have this map that goes to the Swaven Islands? We heard the name earlier.
Matt: Swavain.
Marisha: Swavain.
Sam: That's where we'll find Avantika. Who seems to be some sort of cultist, right?
Laura: Yes, she's very religious and is interested in relics.
Sam: I mean, I assume she's a cultist. Maybe she just is a very nice religious person.
Laura: Maybe she just likes to collect things.
Sam: Yeah! But he said creepy.
Laura: He said that they were mysterious and her whole crew had some sort of magic-y stuff.
Travis: About the sphere.
Sam: He said that they were supposed to collect this sphere, and if it wasn't available, to go look for others. How many have you swallowed?
Travis: One.
Laura: Imagine if you swallow another one, how powerful would you become?
Liam: Then you'll have two balls.
Marisha: Wait, does the ball make you powerful? Is there something going on?
Travis: I certainly feel like I have gained abilities, yeah. I don't know though. Is this where they were headed?
Sam: This is where they were going to head after they got the ball, yes.
Travis: This is a map to a reef. I know the reefs of the Lucidian Ocean, this is very familiar.
Laura: Those are the arrows, are the ping-pong points that you have to hit and then you get to the island that you--
Travis: Yeah, well otherwise you wreck the ship.
Liam: You recognise those specific points there?
Travis: Well, there's the Everplume Reef, there's the Torrid Reef, but this looks like the Inkclaw Reef?
Matt: Make a-- this would be a survival check, since this is-- no. For you, make that a history check with advantage. Since it does fall into your sailor background.
Travis: (groans) That was less. 11.
Matt: It could be one of three reefs.
Marisha: The three you just named?
Travis: There are a lot. There're quite a few.
Matt: Yeah. It's a toss up, you're not entirely sure which one it is. Give me a second. I can probably narrow it down for you. Give me a second.
Travis: There are a few reefs that protect certain islands. One of which is the Darktow Isle.
Sam: He said that, Darktow Port.
Travis: You don't want to go there.
Laura: He said it was bad.
Sam: But he also said it was far away from the one that Avantika was at.
Laura: He didn't make it sound like that's the one that--
Sam: He said it was far away from the one where--
Travis: That would narrow it to two in my mind. If it's in the Lucidian Ocean. One is far northwest of the Darktow and one is more straight east by several hundred miles.
Liam: We came here for the two of you. What are you after?
Travis: What am I after? Well I'd like to see-- I keep saying Avan-teek-a, but it's--
Laura: Avantika. Who knows, really? It could be Avan-teek-a.
Travis: I want to know what she wants the sphere for. I want to know why Vandren had it in the first place. What else are they looking for? Does it have a brother, sister sphere? I don't know.
Liam: Why would we not want to go to this place?
Travis: No, I do! This doesn't look like Darktow to me. Darktow is more in a U shape. You really have to go around the whole damn thing to get in without touching the reef. It's a pain in the ass.
Matt: It could be either Inkclaw or it could be Deep Row. Those are the two that come to mind.
Sam: Aren't you just a little bit scared that this person, Avantika, has spent all this time and resources trying to get these things and you've got one in you and we're going right towards her. Isn't that a little scary?
Travis: No, that sounds great to me.
Marisha: I mean it sounds like she wants this thing.
Sam: But she might just chop you open and take it.
Travis: You wouldn't let her do that, would you?
Laura: We'll try not to. I really should sleep if we're going to do that, though.
Travis: We have plenty of time, it's quite a distance away. So it could either be the Deep Row Reef or it could be the Inkclaw Reef.
Laura: We should really figure it out. I wonder if in the morning we can ask Gallan about it, maybe he knows one of those sound familiar.
Sam: Oh yes, yes.
Travis: Fair enough. We'll have plenty of time, I could-- well, we have to pick one. One's to the northwest and one's down to the southeast from where we are now.
Sam: Do we have to pick right now or can we-- oh wow, those are two different directions (laughs).
Laura: Well, let me go downstairs and wake him up.
Travis: If you want-- we do have the stars on our side so we'll be able to navigate easier. We could drop sail and--
Liam: Yeah, north is that way, and I point north.
Travis: Oh, you're going to be so helpful in this! You're the ship's navigator. I dub thee The Mist navigator.
Sam: It's the Mistake now. We renamed the ship.
Travis: The what? The Mistake?
Sam: The Mistake.
Laura: The Mistake.
Sam: Or the SS Mistake?
Marisha: Wait, are you saying the Mis-Steak like a good filet mignon or like a mistake?
Liam: Or you could put Zemnian and Common together and make it the Shit-ake, if it's the Mistake.
Sam: M-Y-S-T-A-K-E? We're all about spelling things wrong, so maybe we should do that.
Travis: Do I remember if the Deep Row or the Inkclaw, one is closer than the other?
Matt: The Deep Row is a little bit further away, that one's more to the west of where you guys are. There are a number of small islands all throughout the various reefs that aren't on the larger maps. And you haven't been all over the coast, these are all just from the trade routes you've done, and the things that aren't directly near or you'll pass on the trade routes-- some things aren't even charted.
Travis: My knowledge is limited to what I've journeyed through before. The Inkclaw is closer, we could try there-- at least set course for that direction. How does that sound?
Sam: You're the captain!
Laura: Would we get there in two weeks? Because that's how much food we have.
Marisha: Oh that's a good point.
Matt: Well, travel-wise this would be-- say we put this at the speed of a longship, so per day you could probably do about 72 miles in a longship. It looks like travel to-- to which reef? To Inkclaw? It's about 230 or so, 250 miles from Nicodranas.
Travis: Yeah, we could do it.
Liam: Does someone need to man the ship at night when most of us are sleeping?
Travis: Yes, if nothing else to look out for other ships.
Laura: And sea monsters.
Liam: Can we do that without any sailing experience?
Matt: That's the thing. As you consider, and you know, it takes a number of people to maintain a ship. To go at the speed you would need to, you'd need to have somebody who's manning the sails, somebody who's navigating the ship, somebody who's actually necessary for maintaining the course--
Travis: I'll tell you what we could do. There's a joint stop on the trade routes, an island called Brokenbank, we could make it there. I'm familiar with how we would get there and we could try and find some extra hands.
Liam: How far off?
Travis: Almost one-and-a-half times the distance I think, --ish.
Sam: Wait, farther?
Travis: Yeah. I've never sailed directly to the Inkclaw Reef. I just know where it is because I've seen maps.
Liam: The other thing we could do is find a place on the Menagerie Coast a good ways away from where we departed and some of us could try to find a crew. Also, we left the cart behind.
Laura: And my mom and our puppy.
Travis: Yeah, we could return to somewhere else along the-- Nicodranas or Port Damali.
Marisha: Maybe we should talk about the whole Nicodranas thing really fast?
Matt: As you guys are having this moment of conversation, you can't help but notice in the middle of this talk, quiet off to the side-- Yasha's just on the outskirts of you, holding onto the rope of the sail. She hasn't tied it down yet, she's just using herself to hold and maneuver the sail because that's all she knows. But there is, on the far end on the port bow of the ship, is still Caduceus, legs curled up to the chest looking out over the ocean.
Laura: We should definitely talk about it.
Travis: I didn't mean for that to go the way it did.
Marisha: I don't think any of us did. Can we return back to your hometown ever again after that?
Laura: That is a really good question.
Marisha: I feel like we might need to drop some--
Laura: Stealing comes with a pretty hefty fine. So does killing people.
Travis: Yeah, it's not looking good for us right now.
Marisha: Also we have a couple of members of the Mighty Nein that seem a little bit disparate.
Laura: I walk over to Caduceus.
Marisha: I'll join.
Laura: Um, hello?
Taliesin: Hey.
Laura: I sit down cross-legged in front of him.
Marisha: I maneuver to the other side but sit leaning up against the ship, out of it, but here.
Liam: (whispers) Saved by the Bell style.
Laura: How are you?
Taliesin: I think it's been a day.
Laura: It has.
Taliesin: Miss Jester, do you have a plan?
Laura: Hmm.. Wow, no. I don't think I ever have had a plan.
Taliesin: I did. I do-- I did-- I don't know.
Laura: What is your plan?
Taliesin: (sighs) I... had a mission, a holy purpose, a thing that defined me, and I thought that I was honoring it, and now-- what if I was wrong? This is not what I thought it was going to be.
Laura: What was your mission?
Taliesin: My home is dying and... I thought this was what I was supposed to do. I waited for a sign and I thought you were the sign, and now maybe there wasn't any sign. Maybe I just left, and I'm on a ship in an ocean that doesn't want me here. It's been so quiet, and--
Laura: Like how? Do you sometimes hear things?
Taliesin: I always hear things. What if I made a mistake?
Liam: I wander over.
Laura: Well. A lot of times I think that maybe the Traveler has left me and I think maybe things are going poorly and he doesn't like me anymore, but sometimes he'll just show up after a while and tell me that I was on the right path all along, and he just made it fun for me to find it again.
Taliesin: And one day will be the last time; what then?
Laura: You're not afraid of death, are you?
Taliesin: No. Although dying was-- I've been hurt before and I've-- almost drowning was a lot. (laugh) That was a lot and the ocean is a lot and this is a lot.
Laura: Breathe.
Taliesin: (deep breathing)
Laura: The world is a lot bigger than your cemetery. There are a lot of things for you to see, and you have to break out of your comfort zone in order to find the path that you are looking for.
Taliesin: I think I needed to hear that. Breathing's hard. (breathing)
Laura: Just keep doing that.
Taliesin: (deep breathing) It smells really weird in here.
Laura: You can't smell dead people when you're on the ocean.
Taliesin: It's very salty.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Are you hungry?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm really hungry.
Laura: Do you want to make some food? We have a lot downstairs: two weeks' worth.
Taliesin: I like cooking. I think I need to cook.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go cook. Really, I feel better, that was actually really nice. I'm going to go cook.
Marisha: As they walk away and since Caleb wandered up-- Do you truly believe the amount of justification you were just doing for our actions?
Liam: What do you mean, that they started it?
Marisha: Everything we just did. Definitely had a long string of-- sounded like convincing yourself and maybe the rest of us and I just wondered how much you actually believed it, or how much you're trying to convince yourself that you didn't fuck up real bad.
Liam: No, I'm good.
Marisha: Okay, that's great.
Liam: Today was not optimal by any means, but we have helped our friend's mother and she is better off. The things on the dock did not go great-- no one would use the word great-- but we did not draw a blade on them or do anything, they attacked us. We kept ourselves alive, we kept our friends alive. I did not expect us to be departing Jester's hometown quite so quickly, but here we are. We're all alive, we're helping another one of our friends. This is not our home.
Marisha: It's not our home, but does that give us the right to shit on everyone else's?
Liam: I would not say that we have shit on everyone else's.
Marisha: All right. Okay. I don't know. I'm not looking for answers--
Liam: Which part specifically troubles you most? Is it the fact that the town might be without power for a little bit?
Marisha: Eh, people can adapt.
Liam: They can adapt. They have to adapt. People have to adapt. And that creature down there, he's doing better. You can't have a society built on slavery.
Marisha: It's just that-- I've done a lot of shitty things and I've made a lot of shitty choices and a lot of mistakes, and after Molly, I told myself that I was going to try and not do that as much, but it's fucking hard.
Liam: Well, there were a lot of innocent people in that death hole and they're alive because of you. Jester's mother is better off because of you. Alfield is better because of you-- you have done a lot of good.
Marisha: Can we justify murdering six people to have Jester's mom be a little bit better off?
Liam: Well, they attacked us.
Marisha: Okay, yep. They attacked us. And I walk away.
Travis: I'll call out to Beau as she's walking off.
Marisha: Yeah?
Travis: How's it looking down there? Spirits high? (laughter)
Marisha: Uh...
Travis: Okay, no-- I thought I'd ask. How are you feeling?
Marisha: Conflicted, I guess.
Travis: Yeah, I don't feel very good.
Marisha: I don't know. Look, I know we reacted accordingly and in self-defense, but we probably could have a been a little bit smarter about that entire situation.
Travis: It's been a day, right?
Marisha: It's been a fucking day!
Travis: We were going to talk to Algar, we ended up killing his bodyguards and setting that thing free, and then we were going to go and talk to Marius and then we ended up killing the whole fucking crew and captain, minus one.
Marisha: In a part of myself, I'm a little mad because-- I don't know. Everything that tortle was telling us about Marius and how he hangs out at the docks and waits until midnight and I'm like, (scoffs) "What a random, fun guy, just hanging out by the docks at mid--" I don't know, everything about that should have connected in my brain that--
Travis: Why didn't we just go talk? I feel like we've abandoned the use of-- here's my thing, right? Magic's new to me, this sword is new to me. I didn't have most of this all of my life. All I had was my words to get out of situations, to try and heal conflict, to try and outsmart somebody. Now, all of a sudden, I have this power and I feel like it's a shortcut and that I've been cheating myself. I don't feel like I've put forth the same effort to resolve something because I can just will something into happening. That doesn't seem right to me.
Marisha: In a fucked up way, I can actually relate to that quite a lot. For me, I've always had my fists, and, man, is it way easier to solve problems when you're beating the shit out of somebody.
Travis: How does Caleb feel about all this?
Marisha: Like we were justified in our actions.
Travis: Oh, really?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: I don't know, just doesn't sit right. How's Caduceus?
Marisha: Jester had a good talk with him; I think he'll actually be okay. We might need to do a little bit more maintenance. I feel bad; I've treated people like shit my whole life. And having one transformative moment doesn't mean that you're immediately going to be a different person overnight and being better is something you have to work at, I guess.
Travis: That was actually very profound.
Marisha: I can understand taking the easy way out with the power that you have. It's what I've done my whole life. I just don't know anything else, though.
Travis: I get that. Maybe we try not to do that. I check you, you check me. We check the group. Otherwise, I feel like Caduceus is not going to be the last person that thinks about--
Marisha: Walks away from us.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I've driven most people in my life away from me. Hearing him talk like that, it's not the first time I've heard those things, and I don't want to drive you guys away. I don't want us to drive each other away. (sighs) Anyway.
Travis: We need to decide on a destination, whether we turn around and-- Were we in the Open Quay or were we in the Wayfarer's...?
Matt: No, that was in the Wharf.
Travis: We're in the Wharf.
Matt: Yeah, The Restless Wharf.
Travis: The Restless Wharf. We can turn around and come back to the Open Quay or where the Wharfmaster was and try and get in and out real fast with some crew, or we can head to Port Damali, or we can head out to the open sea, but we do need to pick a destination.
Marisha: Is there any damage-- whoever's there! Is there any damage control we want to consider in Nicodranas before we fuck off forever?
Sam: Damage control?
Liam: Well, we can't leave without a crew.
Sam: We can send a letter.
Matt: Which, as a note, you would know there are a few different positions that probably need to be filled. There definitely needs to be a captain, there needs to be a navigator, there needs to be a quartermaster-- who is essentially the first mate that is the second in command under the captain and handles all of the elements there. You're going to need some form of a cook, someone that handles and prepares food. You're probably going to need a bosun.
Travis: Caduceus. Oh, bosun--
Matt: Bosun handles the upkeep on the ropes and the sails and general deck upkeep.
Sam: Cruise director, bursar, bartender.
Marisha: Stand-up comic.
Sam: I've seen The Love Boat.
Matt: There is the carpenter below. Carpenter does ship repairs and upkeep as well. Barrel-keepers are those that maintain the barrels of supplies. There's a bunch of different-- you don't need all of these necessarily--
Travis: We don't have any guns? There's not guns or powder--
Matt: No, this is made for speed. Not that you've noticed, at least.
Marisha: This has turned into a resource management game.
Taliesin: I live for that shit.
Marisha: Lemonade Tycoon!
Matt: You do see Yasha, who's still holding the rope but staring off to the south.
Liam: This works out for you, you were going to get a boat.
Matt: "That's fine, I guess."
Liam: Know where you want to go?
Matt: She looks back at you and back at the south and says, "Just looking for a storm."
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: Fjord, should we have a quick ship's meeting?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Okay, crew meeting, everyone!
Matt: You guys, at this point, have gone down and you've been introduced to the wonders of hardtack! Which is a lot of, essentially, hefty crackers. Shitty, shitty crackers.
Taliesin: I've got plans.
Matt: You do find a couple of barrels of fresh, tropical fruit, which is new for you, Caduceus, especially. Short-term travel elements there.
Laura: That's good for scurvy.
Taliesin: How well stocked is this kitchen? Is it stocked at all?
Matt: It's stocked at the necessary level for a two-week journey.
Taliesin: Okay, I've got the stuff in my set as well so I'm going to just--
Matt: Oh yeah, you have everything on you to create and evoke all sorts of unique flavors.
Taliesin: We're doing some shit. This is on.
Matt: Are you calling everybody from the crew together? You are in the process of planning it out and you're taking stock of everything you have at your disposal and you hear Fjord up top calling you guys.
Taliesin: You know that spicy fruit you can buy on the side of the road? We're doing spicy fruit.
Laura: That sounds so lovely!
Taliesin: That sounds so good right now. I'm genuinely fiending for it.
Laura: Should we go up for the meeting and then come back down?
Taliesin: I think we can bring the bowls up. It doesn't take that long.
Laura: Oh sweet! We'll bring up and give people food while we have our meeting.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: There's bowls. Mine, mine, mine.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: These crackers are terrible.
Laura: Spicy fruit! It's spicy fruit.
Liam: That's why it's a bad cracker.
Travis: Caduceus, thank you for making all this. We need to decide on a destination. We're going to need more hands that are able to figure out where we are going next.
Sam: To get more hands, we could either go back to the place that we exploded and murdered.
Travis: Not those docks. We could go to a separate landing site.
Sam: And risk being spotted by the coast guard.
Laura: Super disguised.
Liam: Who here cannot change their appearance? You? That's it.
Sam: We can't change the boat's appearance.
Matt: Yasha is listening out of the corner of her ear and raises her hand and looks back.
Liam: Okay. You've got the boat.
Sam: Or we could go further to--
Travis: Port Damali.
Sam: Port Damali, or some other place on the coast that I don't know. Or this other place, this island that's like 300 miles away.
Laura: Port Damali's all the way up at the top. We could just stop at the next city up.
Sam: What's the next city up?
Matt: Next city up would be Port Zoon.
Laura: Port Zoon.
Matt: That's about a three-day travel to get there.
Laura: That is a lot of time, though, to get there.
Liam: We would be exhausted.
Travis: We could turn around and try to go to the-- Where was the wharfmaster? The dwarf. Ingus?
Matt: I think it was Ignus.
Travis: Ignus.
Laura: Are we seriously considering bringing the ship right back to Nicodranas?
Travis: It's a different section of the city.
Sam: Do we have a lifeboat or any sort of buoy or anything?
Marisha: Yes, lifeboat. Is there a--
Matt: There's not a lifeboat, per se. There is a small row skiff.
Liam: What about pulling into a cove outside of the city a couple of miles and walking in?
Marisha: Or we could just leave the boat out in the ocean a little bit and take the skiff in.
Sam: Are we hiring a crew? Are we kidnapping a crew?
Travis: Hiring a crew.
Sam: Do we have enough money?
Travis: Fuck. I don't know.
Matt: You've not hired a crew before. You just know what you've worked for which is not a lot.
Laura: How much did you make when you were--
Travis: Not a ton.
Matt: It's maybe, depending on the job, two, three gold a day.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Okay.
Sam: We have enough gold.
Travis: Our quickest bet is just to turn back into-- What area was the wharfmaster Ignus in?
Matt: Ignus was in the Restless Wharf.
Travis: It was the Restless Wharf.
Laura: I guess I could maybe-- can I try to cast Mending on the sail and see if it looks like the burn damage goes away?
Matt: Yeah. I'll say you can slowly, over time focus-- It'll take you about a good hour or so, but you could eventually get the sail to be unsinged.
Laura: Maybe I can paint something on the sail so it looks like a different boat.
Sam: Ooh yes.
Liam: We can either pull the name off of the boat or alter it.
Marisha: The Mistake.
Liam: The Mistake.
Marisha: Super into it.
Liam: I am, too.
Marisha: I have a thought. There was something we used to do and sometimes I'd get hired to do in my town. A little bit of subterfuge. If we wanted to try and--
Travis: That's gone real well for us in the past 24 hours, but go ahead.
Marisha: Well, this one's a little bit more under the surface.
Liam: Quiet subterfuge instead of loud subterfuge which is what we've been doing.
Marisha: In fact, quiet is the key. We used to do little whisper campaigns.
Sam: How so?
Marisha: Just going into bars, pubs. Start talking a little bit loudly about the pirate crew and Captain Jawgrasp and the hell that he unleashed on the docks the other night.
Sam: Oh. Disparage the dead's name so that when people--
Marisha: Fuck it, he's dead. Yeah.
Sam: And then when anyone finds out that we did it they'll be like, "Good for them for killing those bastards," right?
Marisha: I don't even think we'd throw our name in the mix.
Laura: We don't ever mention ourselves.
Marisha: Never mention ourselves, just--
Liam: Maybe the crew turned on their captain and killed him on the docks and fled with his ship, ja.
Marisha: Build a narrative. Start talking just a little bit louder than what you should in public. Maybe whispering to some bartenders.
Sam: Seems like it would take days.
Travis: Yeah, could you do this in a night?
Marisha: Well, my thought was if we split up a little bit, you guys focus on hiring a crew, someone else focus on spreading some words.
Laura: We could just sleep before all this stuff happens because damn!
Travis: Sure. Although the more time that passes, the longer word has to spread.
Laura: It probably has already spread.
Sam: Well, it's the middle of the night now, so it's not going to spread till morning. Right?
Matt: It's about this point you look over in the horizon and you can see the faint hint of dark blue turning to lighter blue.
Laura: Can we just sleep? I'm so tired.
Sam: Let's take a nap. We'll just coast here. Can we coast? Do we have an anchor? Can we anchor?
Travis: We're a little deep for an anchor.
Sam: Can we just do doughnuts?
Laura: Can we go to sleep even if we're just sailing around?
Travis: Sure. Let's go in circles. 12 miles off coast, we'll just go in circles.
Liam: Fjord, can the boat just be adrift if a couple of us stay up in shifts to make sure that there are no enemies?
Travis: In shifts, you can navigate in a pattern, yeah.
Marisha: Can we slowly in shifts navigate towards a cove?
Liam: None of us know how to steer this thing except for Fjord.
Marisha: Fuck me.
Liam: I think we just need to cool it.
Matt: You can very faintly see towards the horizon where Nicodranas is, the occasional little soft light of the lighthouse. You're not completely out of sight of it and when it's this dark and you pay attention, you can just barely see that little blip of light.
Laura: They're going to see us.
Sam: We don't have any light on here.
Matt: Yeah, there's no light on the ship.
Laura: They'll see us when it gets lighter.
Sam: We're fine.
Laura: I'm going to go sleep, okay bye.
Sam: The plan is we're going to find a cove and hide the ship, sneak in, get some crew, sneak back. Or, we're just going to sail right into a different port also in Nicodranas? Grab a crew while we start a whisper campaign, and bolt?
Travis: Yes. I don't know. Either one of those is fine.
Marisha: Sounds insane.
Travis: Yeah. I vote for sailing up outside of the wharfmaster area, taking a little skiff in, just getting some crew and getting the fuck out of here.
Marisha: We can always pull in the ship really fast to load on the crew and then peace out?
Travis: I'd keep the ship out of there just in case the Zello, the Jello.
Matt: Zhelezo.
Travis: Zhelezo have come up and said (exaggerated accent) "There was a ship and the Fireball detonated on the side of it and ours has a bunch of burn damage."
Liam: Why are you talking so funny?
Travis: I don't-- The splinters are in my forehead.
Marisha: Let's sleep. So tired.
Liam: Sit up with me for a little bit. We'll take the first shift.
Sam: Are you talking to me or--
Liam: You. Nott the Brave.
Laura: Good night.
Taliesin: Good night.
Matt: All right. You guys take shifts throughout the evening. To the early elements of the morning.
Liam: Yeah, late morning. Can I just take a moment with my goblin friend while they're sleeping?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: Come here, look. I want to show you something.
Sam: What?
Liam: You want a piggyback?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Skitter up.
Sam: (skittering)
Liam: You see the sun is coming up, but you can still see one or two up there. You see that one?
Sam: The stars?
Liam: That's a planet, that one. That's another place.
Sam: No, we're on the planet.
Marisha: (laughs) Yes.
Liam: Today was a major clusterfuck. Everything went wrong. We did all the wrong things.
Sam: It didn't feel very good, did it?
Liam: No. But do you know what worries me more is the feelings I'm getting from everyone in the crew. They're a little despondent. All of them.
Sam: What do we do about that?
Liam: I know that it didn't go very well, but, this is our new family, right? We want the family to stick together. I think we need to-- oh you're over here. I think we need to lead by example.
Sam: You mean just laugh extra hard and pretend like we're having a great time?
Liam: Keep their morale up, I think, is all I mean. We have done good things, I know that the day was-- it was a day. But we want this to keep going.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: We care for these people, ja?
Sam: Absolutely. And we want to stay together, and if they're thinking that this is not working out, we have to do something to change that. I don't know about going in and starting to lie to a bunch of people. Is that going to make them--
Liam: We definitely need to think more than just wing it, you know? This group, we get under each others' skin, and we all egg each other on and we like to wing it, so maybe we need to slow things down. But I am serious, the thing that I am worried most is they feel like it's fracturing, and we cannot let that happen.
Sam: All right. I'll start thinking about what we can do.
Liam: Also, are you mad about the swimming thing?
Sam: Oh, no, you did what you had to do! I needed to be with the group, otherwise I would've been stranded there alone, and that wouldn't have been good. Next time, you can just tell me, though.
Liam: Tell you when I'm going to mess with your head a little bit?
Sam: Yeah, it's all right. I need it.
Liam: I thought it would help.
Sam: It did, temporarily. I'm still very scared of the water, and I like being on the boat, but getting off is going to be a trick. But it's all right. Yeah. Yeah, we're cool. It's just these other people that're all messed up.
Liam: (whispering) They're losing their cool.
Sam: I know. We'll keep them together. If all else fails, fake a heart attack. Everyone will go to your aid, and then when they save you, we'll be like, "Yeah, we saved him, yeah!"
Liam: I don't know if you're joking or not, but I'm going to do it.
Sam: Okay, good.
Liam: And there really is another world.
Sam: No, we're on the world.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: Nott is a One Earther. All right, you guys keeping first watch, make a perception check. Whoever's maintaining that, either advantage or you both roll independently.
Sam: Independently.
Liam: Independently.
Sam: 14.
Liam: It's a perception? 22.
Matt: Keeping an eye out, you begin to watch as multiple ships begin to cruise out from Nicodranas. At first you begin to get nervous, but watching them, you can see it's the early morning. Right as dawn hits, a lot of these fisherman ships start going out and finding sections where lots of schools tend to come to feed. Beyond that, you don't see any encroaching danger.
Sam: Are there any distinct flags or colors hanging from our rigging?
Matt: You have sails. There is a flag that sits at the top of the main mast, but it is currently tied up.
Sam: Okay. Can I skitter up there and see what it is if it were to unfurl?
Matt: It's big, so you'd have to unfurl to see it.
Sam: Can I pull it down? Is there a thing?
Matt: Yeah, you can bring it down. You bring the flag down and open it up, and it's a light gray flag that looks almost like a curled wave. It looks like a wave of water that curls away. That's the best you can ascertain as to what the design means.
Sam: We'll ask Fjord about it when he wakes up.
Matt: You guys finish your shift. Who's taking next shift?
Travis: I'll go second.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: On the crossover  Does this mean anything to you?
Matt: It does not.
Travis: It does not.
Sam: Maybe we should change it. On the next crossover, tell Jester to paint it.
Travis: It's going to be a giant dick and balls if we do.
Sam: That's fine.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Who's taking next shift? It's Fjord, and just Fjord? Fjord and Caduceus out there for second shift.
Travis: How you doing?
Taliesin: I think I'm embracing the chaos.
Travis: Oh. Yeah, that's a good way to deal.
Taliesin: Do you have a plan?
Travis: A plan?
Marisha: You're asking everyone. Oh no.
Travis: I have a series of expectations, but I wouldn't call it a plan.
Taliesin: I don't get it, but okay.
Travis: I'm in pursuit of something, and I know what maybe the next couple of steps are, but past that--
Taliesin: That's an answer. That'll do. Yesterday was-- oh god, what's the word?
Travis: Heavy?
Taliesin: Heavy. Heavy's good. Yeah.
Travis: I take it you haven't seen much combat.
Taliesin: Well, I've fought animals, a few bandits.
Travis: You ever fought a giant water genie?
Taliesin: No. No, that was a first.
Travis: Me neither. Never even seen one before.
Taliesin: Is life always this directionless?
Travis: Yeah. Well, yeah, my new life, pretty much, yeah. It's open.
Taliesin: The one with the hair, I think she's going to take off again.
Travis: Yasha.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: What makes you say that?
Taliesin: Oh, you know how it is. Some rocks don't sit right.
Travis: Yeah. Do you naturally have the ability to feel that out of people?
Taliesin: I mean, yeah?
Travis: It's very insightful.
Taliesin: Well, my job for most of my life was to talk to people. Well, it wasn't to talk to people; it was to listen to people. I've listened to a lot of people.
Travis: For your job?
Taliesin: Yeah. It's a graveyard. People come and they talk. A lot.
Travis: When they're grieving?
Taliesin: Yeah, and you listen a lot. I don't know much, but I know people. And I know things that aren't people. There's a lot more, apparently.
Travis: You seem to pick up on the stuff that's not said?
Taliesin: You have to. I like that you're looking for something. That's good.
Travis: Otherwise, I don't really know what I'd be doing.
Taliesin: Well, I hope we find it, because then you'd get to figure out what to do next, and then there'll be two of us who would be wondering.
Travis: Fair enough. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm definitely looking out on the ocean to see if--
Matt: Yeah, perception check from each of you?
Travis: I'll give you advantage.
Taliesin: I'll do the double, yeah. Yeah, that's not bad. 21.
Matt: Keeping an eye out on this as well, you, towards the end of your shift, notice one ship that isn't one of the fishermen ships or one of the traders' ships that you've seen in the docks and pointed out to you. It is one of the Zhelezo search ships. It's not leaving too far from the docks, but it's at least patrolling around the outskirts.
Taliesin: Is that a sign that maybe we should really leave?
Travis: I think we'll expand our travel pattern to skate out wider.
Taliesin: Sometimes it's worth owning a mistake, and I think yesterday was a big mistake.
Travis: We don't necessarily want to own that here; they are very stern about mistakes.
Taliesin: Well, by owning it, I mean stop trying to necessarily fix it, and let it be a mistake.
Travis: I agree with that.
Taliesin: And maybe just--
Travis: Move on?
Taliesin: Admit that there might be no fixing this.
Travis: I think that's wise.
Matt: The ship does have a wide berth. It's only one ship that's going across the entire coast there, but that's one thing you've noticed. It's a danger.
Taliesin: Going to have some thoughts about that flag, too, but that's for tomorrow.
Matt: Okay. You guys finish your time at watch. The rest of you come to consciousness. It's now late morning, going to be approaching the afternoon fairly soon, but you've woken up, some food has been devoured, your cabin mate, Gallan, has come to consciousness, and has instinctually gone to start looking at the side of the boat and starting to repair bits of the Fireball damage you had left. Pulls out his tools, starts going to work on that.
Liam: That was good work.
Laura: Found a carpenter!
Matt: Marius is choking through some hardtack. What do you guys want to do?
Sam: We're going back? Find a cove?
Travis: We'll make our way up to the docks where the wharfmaster is, which is a separate docks from where--
Sam: It's the same city, right?
Matt: Same city. The Restless Wharf and the Open Quay are two large sections of docks on the north end.
Travis: Remember it took a while to walk from one to the other. And we're only taking the skiff in.
Laura: Plus it was dark when we left, and nobody saw the--
Travis: And only people that don't look like us can take the skiff in to get the crew that we're going to look for.
Liam: I don't know, couldn't the name of this boat be on a ledger or something somewhere?
Travis: What, The Mistake?
Laura: Good thing we changed it to The Mistake.
Matt: You do know that when ships check into port-- you have not been in charge of it, but you've seen it-- usually there is a ledger of ownership or deed of ownership to the ship that the captain presents to the wharfmaster so that they can keep tabs on who comes in and comes out.
Sam: Do we have one on this ship?
Marisha: Not for the Mistake.
Matt: It got burned.
Laura: (singing) Guess what I can do! I can make things!
Sam: If you've seen one before!
Laura: Fjord can tell me what they look like.
Travis: Can I?
Matt: You can probably get the gist of it. Let's give it a shot. You can certainly try.
Travis: Okay, let's try to forge a pink slip for the Mistake.
Laura: To Fjordie?
Liam: But also, "The Mist" is printed on the side of the boat. We have not changed that, have we?
Sam: We've got to chip that off. Carpenter! First Mate!
Matt: "Yeah?"
Sam: Hold your carpentry duties for now and go change the name of the ship.
Matt: "Okay. To what?"
Sam: The Mistake! No one will know.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: In a different font.
Matt: "I would love to help you, little goblin girl. However, I can't really write or read."
Laura: Is it painted on or is it chipped on?
Matt: It's painted on.
Laura: I can do that!
Liam: You're an artist.
Sam: Back to your duties, please!
Matt: "Right." He goes back to repairs.
Taliesin: Is the flag going to be a problem?
Laura: Well, we don't have to unfurl it.
Taliesin: But will they know what the flag looks like? Will that be part of the information that exists about the ship?
Travis: I am an actor in real life, you should probably ask Matt.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm asking you and hoping you make eye contact with the game--
Matt: As far as you know, they don't check the sails. The sails are designed to show allegiance to certain areas. If, for whatever reason, the ship was searched and a sail was found that perhaps was known to be not kosher with the laws of the coast, then that would be a problem. But that's only if the sail itself is--
Taliesin: But the flag, is it possible someone might recognize the flag?
Matt: It's possible. You probably wouldn't want to go into port with the flag unfurled.
Travis: They don't even have to board us, because we're going to stay out in the river. We're just taking the skiff in.
Marisha: Maybe burn the flag?
Taliesin: I could dye it.
Marisha: Ooh.
Travis: How about we get into the docks first so we can get some crew?
Laura: Okay. I'll rewrite the name, at least, on the side of the ship.
Matt: Okay. In order to do so, you'll have to dangle from the actual stern of the ship.
Laura: Yasha, hold my ankles!
Matt: Yasha looks confused. "Okay, I guess," and turns you over and holds you off the side. (straining) Yasha's even having to wedge against the side because to get you further enough down, it's about ten feet from the stern, so Yasha's having to get her foot caught up underneath the railing.
Sam: Keep doing this motion.
Matt: Jeez.
Laura: I'm holding paint!
Sam: Oh, this is the paint can upside-down...
Laura: Yes!
Sam: And you're dipping?
Laura: I'm dipping because I'm hanging upside-down!
Matt: GIF of the week, right there. You manage to write in a really extravagant, well practiced, Jester way, "The Mistake" on the back of the ship. Yasha lifts you back on board. Any other preparations you guys want to do?
Laura: We should disguise ourselves.
Sam: Should we leave anyone on the ship?
Marisha: Jester, you have a disguise kit, right?
Laura: I do.
Marisha: Would you do my makeup for me? Could you disguise me?
Laura: Of course! Yes, of course I can.
Sam: Do we need to leave someone on the ship?
Travis: I should probably stay on the ship.
Sam: No! You're the charmer! I'll stay on the ship.
Matt: Yasha goes, "I'll stay."
Laura: Yasha's going to stay on the ship.
Travis: Do you know how to move the ship if you need to all of a sudden?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Then I'll stay on the ship. You guys go on, take a big bunch of money, go get the crew. What is the argument to that?
Sam: How am I going to go convince crew to work for us?
Travis: You're not.
Sam: Then what am I supposed to-- I have no job out there!
Marisha: (whispering) Whisper campaign.
Sam: I can do that!
Taliesin: This is going to go so poorly.
Sam: Who's going to hire a crew? We don't even know the parts of the boat that we need to fill! You have to come with us!
Travis: I'll write a list.
Sam: No, Yasha stays with our First Mate, Gallan--
Travis: Listen, last time the only guy who could move the ship was below deck! I'm not leaving my wingman! I'm not making this mistake a second time!
Sam: If Yasha has to move the ship, she might as well abandon it. There's nothing she can do! She's not going to outrun a naval vessel!
Travis: No, I'm staying on the ship.
Sam: What are you going to do? You're one man! You're going to sail the ship away?!
Travis: Yeah, you'll stay with me, I'll make you the little lackey that moves shit.
Sam: (sputtering, sighs)
Travis: I'll keep Marius and I'll keep Gallan.
Sam: I don't like this.
Liam: How close to the shore do we get with the ship? The ship proper.
Travis: I don't know. A quarter mile off the coast? A couple hundred yards? I don't know, how close do you get to the ship if you want to take the skiff in?
Matt: You'd have to get fairly close to even drop anchor, and you don't want to have to row--
Liam: You picked a sailor, man.
Travis: I know, I wished I'd picked an astronaut. Then I wouldn't be fucked. (laughter)
Matt: The strangest of Wildemount backgrounds. You have to get pretty close unless you want somebody to be rowing that boat for a long time.
Travis: Which I do, because I want to punish them.
Matt: Honesty, I appreciate that.
Travis: 150 yards.
Matt: Okay. This'll be interesting. You're helming the ship?
Travis: Based off the last game, right?
Sam: What will you be able to do by staying on the ship? If another vessel--
Travis: What if a Zhelezo ship comes around and arrests Yasha? We can at least get--
Sam: No, if you're on the ship and a Zhelezo boat comes out--
Travis: We drop sail, we take off and I leave you guys in the cove.
Sam: With one person?!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Okay, as you're making your way towards Nicodranas having this conversation, the Zhelezo ship is doing its patrol across. You have to time the best way to come through without gaining its attention. Who wants to be in charge of trying to navigate the ship?
Sam: You, you're the sailor.
Matt: That would be you, I think, Fjord. Make an intelligence check and I'll give you advantage, because you have a sailor background and you understand some of the pathways, especially since watching and noticing this earlier with Caduceus, you've seen it move back and forth.
Travis: 16.
Matt: The Zhelezo ship passes by and it begins to inspect another ship that is coming in from the western trade route.
Laura: Should I draw up the deed?
Matt: Okay, you want to make a forgery of it?
Laura: Should I be? Okay, I'm doing that as we're going in and stuff.
Travis: This is very complicated.
Matt: As you're watching this, you're also helping tell Jester what you think might be included in the paper that you've not really seen. Make--
Travis: I have not really seen?
Laura: I thought you said you had?
Matt: You've seen the papers, but you haven't studied very heavily what is contained on these.
Travis: What would the point be? Because the wharfmaster, that's all he looks at.
Sam: Do it in a different language! What other languages do you speak?
Laura: Oh good question. I speak Infernal.
Sam: A hell boat?! Is that really the only other language you speak is Infernal?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: What are you?
Matt: She's a tiefling. If you'd like to make a forgery check.
Travis: I'm open to all fucking suggestions. I just wanted to park a boat and go get some crew.
Matt: Roll a d20 and add your intelligence modifier and your proficiency, because you are proficient with forgery.
Laura: I hate that it's intelligence.
Taliesin: That's an impressive roll.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Holy shit! Okay, you craft what is probably the most evenly-constructed and in some ways beautiful deeds to a ship. It has borders on it, the signature that's on there looks very formal and probably from some naval captain.
Taliesin: And yet somehow there's a dick in the signature.
Matt: Yeah, it's subtle.
Travis: The filigree on the borders. There's little nut sack.
Matt: You're not sure what the content would require, but you've seen a few formal documents in passing, and you make it up as you go and you hope it's enough. You're proud of it, but you hope it's enough.
Laura: This is really pretty.
Sam: Don't forget to spray it with perfume.
Laura: Oh, right. A little lavender oil right in the corner.
Matt: Okay. Are you taking it in to dock, or are you waiting outside and taking the skiff in?
Laura: We should take it to the dock.
Matt: It's up to you.
Sam: That way we have you.
Laura: That way we have you.
Travis: Let's take it into dock. Against all the advice of zhelezo looking for a burned ship that had a Fireball.
Laura: It doesn't look burned anymore, does it?
Liam: Jester has fixed the sail.
Matt: The sail's been fixed.
Travis: Blackened, charred wood on the outside of it in a sphere shape.
Marisha: I thought we fixed-- did we fix that? Did we fix the black sphere?
Matt: The wood is being repaired, but it's a few days of repair to get all that taken care of.
Liam: Also the Fireball went off the side of the ship, so the edge of the ship would be burned.
Travis: I like it. Let's go into the dock. I love this plan.
Marisha: We always make these plans and then abandon them.
Matt: That's D&D, man. That's how it works.
Sam: No, let's take the skiff in. If you want to take the skiff, we can take the skiff.
Travis: Nope, this is an adventuring party. Let's go into the dock.
Matt: Okay. Restless Wharf or the Open Quay?
Travis: The one that we were not just killing people at.
Matt: Open Quay, okay. You make your way towards the Open Quay. Thankfully, you timed it so that the one patrolling Zhelezo ship that you see is currently invested in another ship that it's interfacing with. You make your way to the Open Quay. You make it to the docks.
Laura: Disguise Self as we get closer.
Matt: All of you that are on there, and you're applying a disguise kit to Beau? If you wouldn't mind rolling a d20, add your dexterity modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: We will tell Marius and Gallan to stay below the entire time.
Marisha: Good call.
Travis: And Yasha.
Laura: 18 plus three.
Sam: Yasha's staying on the boat with--?
Matt: Yeah, Yasha's staying below and keeping an eye on the rest of your crew. With that, you're approached at the docks. The dockmaster there takes your document, is going to inspect it and rolled pretty well, but you rolled a 20. He looks and seems to be taken aback at how well designed versus the occasional chicken scratch and heavily stained, ocean air-tattered pieces of paper are handed to him. Seems to accept it and you guys make your way onto the Open Quay docks. You're there, you drop anchor. What do you wish to do while you're here?
Marisha: I hand off 20 gold to Caleb. Here. Here's for hiring crew.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: Are there any-- yes?
Marisha: You're with me on the whisper campaign?
Sam: I am the whisper campaign.
Marisha: That's what I'm talking about.
Sam: But wait. Before we go, is there anyone walking about the docks? You know, like dockhands?
Matt: Oh plenty.
Sam: Okay. Should we buy anyone off to be like, "This ship's fine, we checked it."
Laura: To say that we've been here awhile or something?
Sam: Yeah, or if anyone comes asking they're like, "Oh yeah, these guys just came in from, I don't know, Marquet or something."
Matt: If anybody that would be the dockmaster.
Liam: The dockmaster is the one person who's in charge of the whole area.
Travis: The wharfmaster Ignus.
Matt: Well, that's in the other side. That's up at the Restless Wharf.
Sam: The guy we just gave the papers to?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Go bribe him!
Laura: Give him five gold.
Sam: Ten gold. Do it!
Travis: You want me to do it?
Sam: Yeah, you're the sailor guy! This is your whole episode!
Travis: Sure, I'll go find that guy with five gold.
Matt: Okay, you approach. This is a human fellow, lanky with a very pronounced Adam's apple and a cleft chin. Big sideburns and this mop of reddish-brown hair, a thick sweater on that bunches up around the neck. He turns back as you approach. "Hi, can I help you?"
Travis: Yes. We're trying to get in and out of port as fast as we can looking to acquire a few crew members. Would you do me a favor though? I'll produce the five gold and say: Would you mind telling any inquiring minds that we've been here for awhile and that we're coming from--
Matt: "You're on The Mistake?"
Travis: The Mistake, that's correct, yes, and we are coming over from-- what was the port in between Port Damali and this one?
Matt: Well there's two, but Port Zoon's the closest.
Travis: Yeah, we're out of Port Zoon and we're just trying to get there and back in the same day if we can.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: 15.
Matt: He gives you a nod and goes to shake your hand and goes, "Understood." Slips the coin into his hand. "All right, in and out real quick." Take the paper, folds it and hands it back to you.
Travis: Is there a posting for people looking for crew positions? A sign?
Matt: "For that you're probably going to look outside of the Seafloor's Bounty or probably on the board at the Withered Bird Inn."
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Seafloor's Bounty or the Withered Bird Inn.
Taliesin: Nothing like a bar with "withered" in the name.
Laura: Yeah, right?
Matt: Welcome to the Open Quay. What are you guys doing while you're here?
Laura: Hiring crew and we're going to get some food for the thing.
Taliesin: We're going to need food and supplies, so anything that you think that we might need, I'll go pick that up.
Travis: I'll tell them the amount of supplies that I think they need to pick up for a month's worth of travel.
Matt: Okay. That'd be a lot of additional rope, some repair materials for the ship, maybe an additional set of tools, a couple of empty barrels, just in case you need them. Actually quite a few barrels if you're going to be buying a lot more food, because right now, since they had stocked up with what they had felt they needed just for their crew and the short trip they were making their way there, if you're stocking up for a while, you're going to need more means of transport and storage.
Laura: Okay, I've disguised myself to look like an old, grizzled sailor.
Matt: Perfect. Okay. It takes you a few hours, but you gather the materials that are needed. The total
Matt: cost for all of the materials together, for all of you-- is it food for a month as well?
Taliesin: I'll even go so far as to say good food for a month. I'm going to bake some shit. Fuck it. I also know that I can create food if I have to, so I can do a lot of, like, base--
Matt: For a month, that's going to be about, I'd say 300 gold.
Taliesin: I do not have 300 gold.
Matt: If it's good food, for all of you guys and the people that you're hiring on the crew, to feed all of you, every day, for a month?
Liam: How about mac 'n' cheese?
Taliesin: What's adequate food?
Matt: Adequate food will put you at about 100 gold.
Laura: Well, let's do that. I'll do 50 gold and you do 50 gold.
Taliesin: I'll do 50 gold, plus I'll up my spice to make do.
Matt: Okay. It's still better food than most sailors have on long trips for that cost. That's for you and the entire crew you're hiring and the two you have on your ship, for a month. Okay, so you acquire that bit.
Liam: I would say that I look like a somewhat plump, good, Zemnian boy, blond, and a little rounder.
Matt: Ach, ein Zemnian boy!
Liam: Ja, a little bit!
Sam: Augustus Gloop!
Matt: Augustus Gloop, exactly!
Liam: Don't make me run, I'm full of chocolates! I saw Fjord talking to the wharfmaster, so I will wait until Fjord is finished, and then I will go up and talk to him as well.
Matt: Okay, cool.
Liam: Excuse me, we have been doing very well on our travels at sea, and we are looking to share the duties and want to hire a bigger crew. I know there's many docks around here, but why wouldn't I start here, of course. Do you know-- is this a good place, is there anyone who's looking for work right now? We're going on a journey, oh, you know, three or four or five or six weeks, perhaps. One-time job.
Matt: Glances at you, glances at you, glances back. "Yeah, if you're looking to hire, you'll find most of them at either the posting at the Seafloor's Bounty, or the Withered Bird Inn."
Liam: Oh, I'm so sorry, did you cover that already?
Matt: "Yes, but now both of you are informed."
Liam: Excellent.
Matt: "So good luck."
Sam: I come wandering up. (laughter)
Sam: (shouting) We need a crew!
Matt: Ugh!
Sam: I look like Cap'n Crunch, by the way. (laughter)
Sam: All right. We know what we're doing, right?
Liam: For real though, like a real-world Cap'n Crunch?
Sam: Yeah, short, hat, white moustache.
Matt: I'm so happy this campaign you guys have a mostly deceptive, illusory-based party. This really makes for a lot of shenanigans You guys start looking for a crew to hire. How many crew are you looking to hire?
Travis: Seven. No, six. Crew of six.
Matt: Crew of six. You have two with you already.
Laura: Yeah, and you can be the captain.
Liam: Carpenter, captain, so we need a boatswain.
Travis: We need a boatswain. Well, we've got the cook. We need a quartermaster, we need a navigator, and a captain. If we don't need a cook or a carpenter--
Liam: What came between boatswain and navigator?
Matt: A barrel keeper.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You've worked as a boatswain before. That's primarily what you've done, as well as some element of barrel keeping in your travels. Those are primarily what your skills would fall under.
Travis: Sweet. Let's call it a crew of five.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Captain, navigator, quartermaster, cook, and another boatswain slash barrel keeper.
Marisha: Can you be a cook?
Taliesin: I am a cook.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten? Okay.
Taliesin: I look like Shaggy from the special episode of Scooby Doo where he's pretending to be a pirate.
Matt: You find a few folk that are pretty good, so you hire pretty much for all the other positions you need. The navigator's the one you're having a hard time with. Everyone you've talked to is like, "Yeah! I can sail the sea!" And you're like, "Hm. Nah." You're having a harder time finding a navigator.
Sam: Maybe we should go elsewhere.
Travis: Yep.
Sam: Let's go elsewhere.
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: Wait, are we at a bar or something?
Travis: No, we're at the docks right now. We'll go to the Seafloor Bounty first.
Liam: Seafloor Bounty.
Matt: All right. I'm assuming in this degree, you're going to these places to find these hires, as opposed to having to roleplay every interview with each of these crewmen.
Taliesin: It's been awhile. I don't know. Sorry!
Matt: That's true.
Travis: We never know, we might kill them, so--
Matt: Yeah, that's possible.
Marisha: If we stop at any bars along the way (whispering) whisper campaign.
Liam: Do you know what this is reminding me of, though? Is getting the crew for our keep in the last home game.
Taliesin: That was totally what I was thinking about.
Matt: Kind of.
Taliesin: We also make them fight and try to kill each other.
Matt: So whisper campaign. One of you make a deception check and one of you make an investigation check.
Sam: I'll do investigation.
Marisha: Okay. I'll do deception. Natural 20.
Matt: Oh shit!
Taliesin: Thank god.
Sam: It's not a roll. Not great. Investigation. 17.
Matt: 17. That's pretty good.
Sam: Wasn't a good roll, but I have a lot of plus.
Matt: There you go. All right. What whispers do you want to disseminate?
Marisha: I disseminate that these ruffian pirates, coming in, messing up our nice and peaceful Nicodranas again. I heard it was that Captain Jawgrasp. He came in and he deceived his own crew, and he murdered them all in a plot of vengeance and greed, and then he took the boat, and he went off on his own.
Matt: All right. As you're spreading this rumor, you start hearing people responding to that being like, "Jawgrasp, wasn't he found dead at the docks the other night?"
Sam: Let's adjust--
Matt: Hold on. You do find out that a number of the corpses that were gathered, the two names that you find are Captain Javeed Jawgrasp and Mattheus Freecall. They were both known criminals that had bounties on their head. In one hand, there is a search for, or at least there is an understanding that some unknown do-gooders were responsible for killing two people with bounties on their heads. However, there was a blue-skinned tiefling that killed herself on the dock and people are trying to find out information. They're searching for the body, and they're trying to find out who that was. Apparently, a ship was taken from some of the surviving crew of these people. You're getting the idea that the guards didn't realize there was a conflict happening, and just assumed that whoever took the boat, you guys, were members of this Captain Jawgrasp's crew.
Liam: The rumor we're trying to spread is what they already think.
Sam: The whisper campaign succeeded!
Marisha: Succeeded? Yeah! We're already great!
Sam: But we should adjust it, right? If they're looking for Jester, why don't we put in a little doubt, right? They're looking for a blue-skinned tiefling. Why don't we just say: Oh, I heard it was a green-skinned dwarf, or something like that. Just do a little confusion so maybe they're not sure who it was, who killed herself on the dock. I heard she was already crazy, or something like that. And then maybe the ship that was taken. Didn't it have that distinct three-mast silhouette that you would definitely recognize?
Marisha: Yeah. Oh yeah!
Sam: Yeah. We could do some of that.
Marisha: It was so dark, but the sails seemed black like the heart of Captain Jawgrasp.
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: Just like his soul.
Sam: A little flourish.
Marisha: Yeah. Maybe this-- We got to come up with something better than green-skinned dwarf. That's not a real thing.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: That's how we do it at home, is you raise your hand.
Sam: What is it, Mr. Clay? We want your input, as you are definitely part of this team.
Taliesin: I see what you're doing and I like it. I like a good ghost story. Maybe--
Marisha: Ooh. This is getting so complicated with each layer!
Taliesin: Maybe they saw everybody knows the legend of the little devil girl who drowned a hundred years ago.
Sam: And you see her every hundred years?
Taliesin: Every now and then, someone reports about seeing--
Travis: Jason Voorhees Jester.
Liam: Yes, more often than a hundred years.
Taliesin: Everyone loves a good dock tour. Like, a haunted dock tour.
Liam: That's true.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: Well, I like a haunted tour. I've never actually been to a dock, now that I think about it.
Marisha: She drove the captain mad with the vengeance--
Laura: No! He drove her crazy with love! And she killed herself because she couldn't be with him!
Marisha: Yeah. Now her spirit lives on, and she is haunting sailors, looking for her long-lost lover!
Laura: I love it!
Matt: All right. You've planted the seeds of this ghost story on the docks. In an attempt to co-opt the story of this blue-skinned, horned tiefling, you've also disseminated the information that Jawgrasp died somehow in line with this ghost story.
Marisha: I'm just saying. Spooky coincidences.
Sam: The curse.
Matt: We'll see if it sticks. You've set the seeds.
Marisha: We, once again, put misinformation out about the boat.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What it looked like.
Marisha: What it looked like.
Matt: Okay. Remember, everything you've heard are all been common rumors. People just talking who hear the whispers you're saying and the tales, and retorting with what they've heard in the past morning because there was hubbub. People there are discussing what they saw or heard about what happened.
Liam: Rumors only grow.
Matt: But you haven't seen any of the guards that were present. All right, cool! While that's happening, you're all still trying to find a navigator.
Liam: Find that navigator. Did we find the rest?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Liam: Oh. 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. You have met one navigator before.
Laura: (gasp) I remember!
Liam: I do not.
Laura: Was it Orly?
Marisha: I think it was Orly.
Liam: Was it within the last month? Then you have to tell me who it is.
Matt: That's what I did, it's Orly.
Liam: She said Orly, you didn't confirm it!
Matt: I was waiting to see if you'd pick up on it.
Taliesin: Oh really?
Matt: Oh. That's going to cost you. Caduceus' intelligence just went to eight.
Taliesin: That was all me, that wasn't Caduceus. Ugh.
Marisha: Let's go get Orly.
Sam: He's in the other port.
Travis: That's all right, go get them. We don't look like ourselves.
Liam: Yeah, we'll walk there. We need turtle power.
Sam: How long is the walk?
Matt: From here? I'd say-- Carefully? About an hour.
Sam: An hour. We'd have to re-spellify ourselves.
Laura: We can send a message to him.
Sam: Oh! How do you send a message to him? You mean, like, spell Message?
Liam: Ja.
Sam: He's not going to respond to that!
Taliesin: If there's money involved.
Laura: Yeah, hold on.
Sam: All right. Think hard about this.
Laura: This is a powerful spell.
Liam: Offer money from the get-go.
Sam: Come to Open Quay.
Laura: Come to The Mistake in the Open Quay.
Sam: Lose all the thes.
Laura: Come to Mistake in Open Quay. We've got money for you as a navigator.
Taliesin: Job opportunity.
Sam: You still have more words.
Marisha: Should we say, "We're The Mighty Nein, we met you the other night"? No, maybe not.
Sam: Why do we know that he likes or hangs out with?
Laura: Marius.
Sam: Oh, we can say "Marius needs help. Come to Open Quay--"
Laura: No.
Liam: No.
Sam: No? Shit.
Liam: Just say, your messages, you put it  Your friends from the other night. That's it.
Laura: Dear Orly--
Matt: That's the first two. Go.
Taliesin: (singing) How are you? I'm fine. Everybody else is too.
Laura: Come to Open Quay. The Mistake will hire you as a navigator. Lots o'money. That's one word.
Matt: (uncertain groan)
Laura: O'money. Of money. Okay. Lots of money. No, no.
Matt: No, I know.
Sam: Now?
Laura: How many words do I have left?
Sam: Is that 17 that she's--
Matt: Yeah, eight left.
Liam: Eight left?
Sam: Come now. Also, The Mistake is a boat.
Laura: Come now. Also, The Mistake is a boat.
Matt: Yep. There's a brief pause, and eventually, you hear this voice come through, "I'll swing on over. Soon as I m-m-muster the energy to finish my breakfast."
Laura: He's coming.
Matt: Little time passes, and sauntering up onto the dock, you see the massive, waddling form of the tortle, with the sack over the shoulder. The rest of the deckhands look and give a nod. Some recognize him, others are still like, "Fucking tortles, they're weird." Then eventually makes his way to the ship, over to the skiff and goes-- Oh no, you guys have the ship in dock. You brought it all in there. He walks over and steps up onto the gangplank. "So whom-- who am I talking to?"
Travis: Me, apparently.
Matt: "Hey there, it's real good to see you again. I heard from some m-m-mysterious magic voice that you were going to hire someone to navigate."
Travis: We were hoping your services weren't spoken for.
Matt: "How long you looking to need m-m-me?"
Travis: Few weeks? At the most, maybe only a couple.
Liam: Do you know who you're talking to? We all look different from the last time that we have met.
Matt: "I have no idea."
Liam: We came to see you, we talked about that we-- a man named--
Laura: Shush, just let him get on the boat before we tell him these things.
Liam: We like the look of you. We have a good job and big money.
Matt: "I'm m-m-mighty confused, but money definitely drives, so."
Sam: How much do you charge on a weekly rate?
Matt: "Weekly, let me think. 35 gold?"
Marisha: (shouting) A week?!
Travis: A week.
Liam: A week, yeah, it's--
Sam: We might be gone a month or two.
Liam: Well, I have 20 gold.
Travis: 27 gold a week.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: How are we going to get enough gold to pay all of these people?
Sam: He's literally our only job candidate.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: 19.
Matt: "Deal, if I get to choose my quarters."
Sam: Choose your quarters?
Matt: "M-m-my quarters."
Travis: We can accommodate that.
Matt: "Then, m-m-my friend, it's a deal." (laughter) Begins walking up the gangplank and then inflates the bag and (bagpipe sounds) announces his presence onto the ship as he arrives.
Sam: We're trying to be quiet.
Liam: A full Scottish send off when we leave.
Matt: Yeah. You know, the more you hear it, the more you're like, "Eh, it's not that bad, actually." It's the initial note that kicks in and once you get used to it, it's not bad.
Liam: It breathes better in open space.
Matt: Yeah. All right, with your crew and supplies acquired and--
Marisha: We did it.
Matt: -- possible seeds of whispers disseminated, some information gained about the scenario of those that you killed on the dock the night before, and the knowledge that they're still searching for the rest of the crew, you make your way off the dock. Are you going to try and pass by the Zhelezo ship once more? Because you're going to have to to make your way out.
Travis: Well then, yeah.
Marisha: Can I assist him with counting as they go by?
Matt: Actually, with Orly hired and helping you out with this. Did you tell Orly you were trying to avoid that ship?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Orly goes, "I think this helps me know what kind of business we into." Okay, with advantage on that. Nice, all right. Quickly telling you, "All right, go now, round about that way," he begins giving you the proper timing and based on your previous information, without issue you manage to dodge the Zhelezo ship, make your way to open waters and now, in the later afternoon, you guys have now exited the outskirts of Nicodranas. We'll see how much of what you've left behind helps to what you left behind the night before, but nevertheless you have a crew, you have supplies, and you are on the water. With that, we're going to go ahead and take a break.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Nice, nice, nice.
Matt: You hired the tortle!
Travis: Just keep him around.
Taliesin: I want to hear you do that voice forever.
Matt: Well I have to now. You fucking hired him. I was thinking, I'm like, "They met a navigator. Aw fuck." All right, so we're at the giveaway break. We're going to be giving away this awesome Peruvian walnut tabletop dice tray by Wyrmwood. It is slick, it is leather on the inside, it feels like. For this, the keyword tonight is "theft." Come over to the Critical Role Twitch channel and the chat room to be a part of this giveaway during the break, that's twitch.tv/criticalrole, enter the word "theft" once, any more than that and you'll be disqualified. Once again, it's only good for those in the United States and Canada, excluding Quebec, we're working on it. We'll have the winner when we come back, so see you guys here in a few minutes. Yeah! [break]
Matt: And welcome back. We have our winner of the fantastic giveaway, the Peruvian walnut tabletop dice tray by our friends at Wyrmwood is Goku518. That's right, not only does he keep coming back from the dead, he also wins dice trays. Goku, you won this awesome tray. We'll get that sent out to you ASAP, we'll get your info. Congratulations, and well done. Picking up where we left off, as Orly is on the ship, Orly also brings with him a map of the Menagerie Coast. Because USPS is the fucking worst--
Sam: Please sponsor our show. Please sponsor.
Matt: -- it did not arrive in time, the full one, so you'll have to deal with this printout for the time being, but there is one on the way.
Sam: How big was the full one going to be?
Matt: Pretty big. (disappointed groaning)
Matt: I know. Next week, possibly at the live show. There we go. That can be something for you to reference for your travels on the Menagerie Coast.
Marisha: I keep sharpening it, and it's just shit--
Liam: Rose gold.
Sam: (Russian accent) Rose gold is best gold. (regular accent) I'm wearing an Apple watch with a rose gold band on it.
Matt: Oh, Sam.
Marisha: Mine and Matt's wedding rings are rose gold.
Sam: (Russian accent) It is the best color.
Matt: (mimicking accent) It is good for for wedding materials as well, yes. (regular accent) Mighty Nein, you have your crew. This is a pretty packed ship for a runner ship, because you have a full crew, and then on top of that, you have you guys. As opposed to training as sailors, you've hired more on top of what you have, so now you have a very busy ship. However, you are out and about on the ocean. What are you guys going to do, where are you going, what's the plan? Orly needs something.
Sam: Yeah, we've got to show-- maybe this jogs Orly's memory. Orly-- why am I showing this to you, but here, here's a piece of a map we retrieved! We'd like to go there. But keep it secret from the rest of the crew.
Laura: Is that the Inky Claw Reef?
Matt: He compares it with the map and goes, "B-b-est I can tell, it's probably close to the Inky Claw, you know?"
Sam: Oh, you were right, Fjord!
Travis: You're off the boat.
Matt: "What?"
Marisha: Take your gold and leave.
Taliesin: Why do they call it the Inky Claw?
Travis: Why do they call it the Inky Claw?
Matt: From what you know, partially because the waters around there are very murky and very dark, so it's hard to see where the reef comes close to the surface. A lot of the sea creatures that live in the area tend to knock a lot of the silt up, that's close to the bottom of the reef, which means sometimes the reef sneaks up on you and rakes across the bottom of the ship itself.
Travis: Because we have this map, and we have a navigator, that doesn't mean that we can go from one destination on a map that we saw to another. We still need to follow the trade routes, right?
Matt: You can, it just means that-- anything that's off the trade routes means there is not a lot of patrolling Zhelezo ships to maintain protection for people that are using those lanes. It also means that sometimes, as you've heard, certain creatures that live in the ocean or nearby, you're a little more susceptible to, but it's a quicker route if where you're heading is the Inky Claw?
Liam: Roads. It's just like roads. Off roading it or roading it?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it looks like there's not a main trade route.
Travis: Yeah, if we stay on the trade route, we have to go here, and then down, and then come across, or we go here.
Laura: Let's off-road it!
Taliesin: As the crow swims.
Sam: (laughs) As the crow swims?
Travis: (laughs) Do crows swim?
Liam: Sure.
Matt: You're telling Orly to head to where?
Travis: Well, I want to make everyone aware of the dangers, okay. If we take the trade route, it will take three and a half times longer to get there than if we just go from Point A to Point B. But Point A goes across uncharted waters, and on this map there are giant tentacles coming out of the water, probably just for flavor.
Laura: I told you, sea monsters!
Travis: Could just be artist's interpretation, to try and fill in blank space, doesn't mean anything.
Liam: There's tentacles on the map?
Laura: I can't tell anything about what's happening here. Port Damali. Nicodranas.
Travis: Nicodranas, and the Inkclaw is down to your lower right hand corner.
Sam: Those could just be vines.
Taliesin: Literally can't tell what that is.
Matt: Sea vines.
Travis: They're like little sea cucumbers.
Liam: TGIF flair, is all that is.
Travis: We also have this map, which is at the top of the Inkclaw Reef, that will guide us through the reef. Instead of coming this direction and then down and underneath, which is what you would probably be doing.
Laura: Let's do it!
Travis: All right. We'll instruct Orly--
Sam: Not only will we do it, we will do it in solidarity with you and your quest, because we are a team! A cohesive unit that acts as one! When one member wants something, we all want something, right guys?
Liam: Ja, of course. We are The Mighty Nein, not to be trifled with. Welcome to The Mighty Nein, Caduceus.
Sam: Put it in!
Travis: Put what in? The map?
Liam: No, she means your hands.
Marisha: Both hands, or just one?
Laura: And Yasha!
Matt: Yasha puts one hand in as well.
Sam: On three, ocean. One, two, three!
All: Ocean!
Travis: Is that a goblin thing?
Sam: Now it's a--
Laura: It's a Mighty Nein thing!
Sam: It's a Mighty Nein thing!
Marisha: Yeah! We have a thing.
Sam: It's a new thing.
Travis: We're going to instruct Orly to navigate from north to south to the top of the reef, using this.
Matt: Orly corresponds and is like, "Just out of personal curiosity, why are we heading through the reef? Where are we going?"
Travis: We are trying to catch up with a captain that we need to make contact with.
Matt: "All right. Well, this captain you're talking about m-m-may be where that 'X' is on the paper?"
Travis: I think they might, yep.
Matt: "So that's putting us right by the island."
Laura: Which island?
Matt: He points to, just on the outskirts of the 'X', the land mass.
Laura: Oh, that island.
Matt: "According to my map right here, that is Urukayxl."
Travis: Urukayxl?
Sam: Urukayxl?
Laura: I see it, yes, I see this map.
Matt: "That's a real avoided locale."
Laura: Why?
Matt: "Superstition. Many folks around here, they talk about the dark stories of dense jungle and very dangerous, iron-bearing creatures. They talk of strange, ancient m-m-masses, and they talk of wild, unnatural types."
Liam: Could it just be talk? For instance, there is a rumor of a ghost girl on the docks back in the Menagerie Coast we heard circulating.
Matt: "Not too familiar with that one, but it's possible. Mind you, I'm the navigator, I ain't getting off the ship, so that's all up to you."
Laura: Have you ever heard of the Silver Silt Palace?
Matt: "Can't say I have."
Laura: Okay, just checking.
Travis: Caduceus, are you excited about these haunted stories?
Taliesin: I mean, I guess, I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it.
Laura: Hey look, it could be the path leading us to more dead people, yeah?
Taliesin: I guess. I don't know, I'm trying to reevaluate my expectations, I suppose. But we have a direction, we have a place to go, and stories are stories.
Liam: This thing that you want to do, this mission-- I'm sorry, I overheard last night-- is there a place that it needs to happen, or is it something that you will do wherever you go on the road?
Taliesin: I didn't really think it through, I hadn't really-- I thought it would be easier to figure out.
Marisha: Caduceus, do you actually even know what you're looking for?
Taliesin: A sign.
Marisha: So you came with us because we thought we were a sign?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: And now you're looking for the next sign.
Taliesin: Well, when you say it out loud--
Travis: Whereas he still hasn't found what he's looking for.
Matt: Yasha actually approaches from the side, overhearing the conversation, looks up to you, Caduceus, and goes, "I know what it's like to be looking for some meaning. Some guidance. Do you trust in your visions?"
Taliesin: I did. I-- yeah.
Matt: "And you have strong faith in this thing you follow?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "Then if you ever go off the path, maybe they'll tell you. You just have to keep looking."
Taliesin: Well, that's fair. I hadn't really thought about that.
Matt: "It's kind of new to myself as well."
Taliesin: We're heading towards an island. I've heard stories. Let's go to the island.
Matt: As you guys are--
Marisha: When we fully get out of the reach of the land, by the way, as we're sailing away, I just want to keep an eye out on the horizon and be like: Professor! See if I see him.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: I throw some dead pigeon or seagull in the air.
Travis: Never has there been a more worthless perception check.
Marisha: Nope. Seven.
Matt: No sign of the Professor. You do have-- what is it, Sprinkle? Sprinkle is still nestled up next to you. However your blink puppy, Nugget, still remains with Marion back in Nicodranas.
Laura: I want to send a message to her before we go to sleep tonight.
Travis: To Nugget or your mom?
Laura: To my mama.
Matt: Okay. All right. The evening comes quick; by the time you guys are leaving, it's not that far from dusk, and so your first evening out on your new trajectory, you have time. What do you want to send to Marion?
Laura: Mama, stuff happened at the docks and we had to leave very quickly. Please take care of Nugget for a while. We'll be back, I promise. You may have heard about the little girl who was killing herself on the dock--
Matt: Are you using this across multiple spells?
Laura: Yes, this is my second message. My second message: that looked like me but it wasn't me, don't worry, I'm very much alive, and I love you very much, and I'll be home soon.
Liam: Beep!
Matt: She doesn't have the chance to respond to the first one, because you go right through to the second, but Marion does respond to the second and goes, "Oh! Well, thank you for letting me know, Jester. Be safe, be bright, and make me proud. And come back soon. You and your friends. Goodbye!" All right, who's keeping watch the first evening? Because now, with a full crew, you can go full pace on this longship, which will put you about 72 miles per day. It's about a 250 nautical mile trip, including through the reef, with a full crew. That means it'll put you there in a little over three days, about three and a half, maybe four days with careful passage through the reef. For the evening, who's watch? Okay. And you have crew who can take up as well, if you want to. So one of you or both of you, make a perception check.
Laura: Want both of us to do it?
Travis: Sure. Ten.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. During the evening, you keep an eye on the waves. At some point, the moon itself is starting to find itself low in the sky, and you look over and you see this faint glow in the water below. You feel the back of your neck get warm for a second and you glance over to try and inspect what the source of this light is. It's a jellyfish bloom. You see hundreds and hundreds of these tiny jellyfish below the surface that are giving this faint bioluminescent blues and pinks and variety of colors in that pastel spectrum. They pass under the waves as you move by and you look out beyond that and you can see a few more. For the next hour or so, you look over the water and pass by these beautiful little beacons of color in the middle of this dark black ocean.
Laura: Fjord, have you ever seen anything like this before?
Travis: Mm-hmm.
Laura: Really?
Travis: Yeah, they're beautiful.
Laura: Yeah. I've never seen anything like this.
Travis: Last thing you want to is jump in there, though. That is a bad time.
Laura: Really?
Travis: Yeah, jellyfish sting and it's quite painful.
Laura: Sometimes things that are the most beautiful are the things that can hurt you the worst. Are you worried about where we're going?
Travis: No. No, I'm more anxious to get there. My curiosity, I suppose, overrides my fear.
Laura: That's good. You're not afraid that this captain is going to hurt you?
Travis: No, I don't think I had gotten that far. Plus, I have the sphere. Captain Avantika doesn't.
Laura: That's true.
Travis: I feel like we take care of ourselves pretty well.
Laura: Yeah. I promise I'll heal you if you start to hurt, okay?
Travis: Thank you.
Laura: You're welcome. Do you ever get sad?
Travis: Sad?
Laura: Yeah, that sometimes things don't work out the way you were hoping?
Travis: Yeah. I suppose I get sad. Are you sad, Jester?
Laura: Only sometimes, but it passes really quickly.
Travis: I'm sometimes sad about the things that I had before, that I won't have anymore. I sometimes wish that things were different. What makes you sad?
Laura: I miss my mama already. I thought we could see her longer.
Travis: I am sorry that we left in the way that we did. Would your mom ever think of leaving Nicodranas?
Laura: I don't know. She thought about it one time with my dad. She was planning to leave with him, but then he never came back.
Travis: Right. What would you want for her? To stay there and grow old or--?
Laura: I would like for her to be happy. I would like for him to love her. I don't know. I would like for her to not have to work anymore.
Travis: That's very noble of you. Yeah.
Laura: I'm pretty noble.
Travis: Well, how about on some of these islands I've heard that there is treasure.
Laura: Oh really?
Travis: Hard to find. I'm not making any promises, but if we play our cards right and we take care of each other, we might return a bit wealthier than we left.
Laura: This is a pretty good plan. Then we can use that money to bribe The Gentleman to go back and woo my mama again.
Travis: Or give it to your mom and have her go find The Gentleman, but she's just amazing.
Laura: That could work, too.
Travis: Yeah. Don't be sad. Your mom is very proud of you, that much was clear.
Laura: Yeah. Thanks, Fjord.
Travis: Don't mention it.
Matt: The remainder of the evening goes thankfully uneventful. The blooms fade as you pass through the evening mating grounds of these jellyfish. The next day comes, the morning comes, and your first true on-the-ocean breakfast kicks in. Thankfully, because of supplies that were purchased, there are a number of fresh meats available. A proper breakfast can be made. You can see through the crew that you've hired, they're quite surprised by the quality of food they're given on this journey. There's a bit of like a, "Damn, now I'm glad I agreed to this journey." They take some food and a couple of them are like--
Travis: They decided not to kill us.
Liam: Mutiny!
Taliesin: There are vegetarian options as well.
Liam: "Wow, this quinoa's pretty good!"
Taliesin: That's all I wanted, I can die happy now.
Matt: Hilariously, Marius is actually a vegetarian.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Travis: Of course he is.
Matt: He is! He's like, "I'll probably partake in that, too, if that's all right?"
Taliesin: No, please.
Matt: "This is delicious."
Taliesin: Thank you, I'm very proud of this. Family recipe.
Matt: "They're crazy, aren't they?"
Taliesin: Completely crazy. Bonkers.
Matt: "What's going to happen, are they going to let me go, you think?"
Taliesin: Oh yeah. I mean, probably. I don't know. I mean, I'm just barely attached on to this at this point, but I think you're fine.
Matt: "If worst comes to worst, we cut and run, huh? You and me?"
Taliesin: Worst comes to worst, I'll make sure you can cut and run. I think I'm stuck here for a while, but I'll make sure you can bugger out if you need to.
Matt: "Okay, thanks."
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: "Once again, very good."
Taliesin: I have no idea what just happened.
Matt: Continuing on your journey, who's keeping watch for this next day?
Marisha: I'll go.
Matt: All right, so either you guys roll individually or one of you with advantage, your choice.
Marisha: Individually, yeah?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Perception?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Nice. Solid.
Marisha: Natural one.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, good.
Sam: Marisha, you have to give $100 to 826LA.
Laura: Oh my god, can you imagine? We would be so broke.
Sam: Every time we roll a one, we have to donate $100 from our own wallets.
Matt: Okay, since Orly is the navigator, helping you out and are you leading this-- are you guiding the boat, are you the captain of this?
Laura: You're the captain, just take it.
Matt: You didn't hire a captain and they need to be hired by somebody, so one of you needs to be the captain.
Laura: You're the captain. Captain Fjord!
Matt: You generally don't hire a captain for the ship, like hey, we're just a bunch of assholes with a boat! We need to hire someone to be our leader and pay us.
Travis: I saw, right next to the cut your own keys booth next to the dock, there was a rent-a-captain. He would sit there with a corncob pipe and he's like, "Argh, me is a--"
Taliesin: You didn't download the app, though, didn't you, so you didn't hire him.
Marisha: Yeah, that's just a photo opportunity.
Matt: What's your captain name, to your crew?
Travis: My captain name?
Matt: They need to have to know who their captain is, who they're going to go towards.
Travis: Captain... Captain Tusktooth.
Matt: Captain Tusktooth. There we go. They're very confused because there are no tusks visible on Tusktooth.
Travis: Nope. You never want to see them.
Matt: Good to know, Captain Tusktooth. All righty.
Liam: The perception check was for at night during a shift?
Matt: No, this was throughout the day.
Liam: All throughout the whole day, okay.
Matt: The crew's keeping watch, too, but this is keen eyes and occasionally going up to-- climbing the sail a bit to get a good view, or climbing the mast to keep an eye out.
Marisha: I'm leaning on the edge and I just go Caleb, this is boring. It's just blue.
Laura: I'm blue!
Marisha: Jester's more interesting to look at.
Matt: Roll a survival check with advantage for Orly's help as the navigator. To keep us on task and in the proper direction.
Liam: Could we say that Beau and--
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: You're going to pick up some speed, actually.
Liam: Look at Fjord. He is the captain now.
Matt: Captain Tusktooth already, out of the gate, acting like a captain and the crew's coming together. For all of you who watched the fuckery that was you trying to get out and then back to port the night before, seeing a full crew on the ship knowing what they're doing, you're like "Oh." Yeah. It's probably good you hired this crew.
Travis: Lower the inboard motor! Fire at--
Liam: One quick thing.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: You know, I want to thank you. You could have told any of these people anything about me and you have not.
Marisha: No. Don't give me that much credit yet, I still could.
Liam: I know. You have every right to. I hope you don't. I don't know how all of them would handle it. Be that as it may, I have something for you.
Marisha: What?
Liam: I bring Frumpkin out in his new speckled elf owl form, which is the smallest owl on the planet. He weighs one ounce.
Travis: Really, one ounce?
Matt: Oh no!
Laura: Like the famous little owl with the star eyes?
Liam: The tiniest little owl that ever existed. This is a loaner.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: You can have him for roughly a week.
Marisha: He doesn't look as angry as Professor Thaddeus.
Liam: No, this is the way owls are supposed to be. I place him. He's going to listen to you.
Marisha: Is he?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I poke him and see if he bites me.
Sam: He's dead.
Matt: Every time!
Marisha: Everything that I touch!
Travis: One ounce! One inch punch!
Matt: It is technically a monk weapon, the index finger.
Marisha: My hands are registered weapons!
Liam: A couple rules. He will listen to you. Will you listen, Frumpkin? Frumpkin nods. Okay. If you need to get him out of danger in a hurry, you say "split." That's what it will take. You'll need me to bring him back, but if he's in danger and you want to keep him for your week loaner, you say split. Okay? He's yours. Thank you. Yeah?
Marisha: Thanks, Caleb. Thank you.
Matt: Your guys' day shift goes by, keeping watch. Nothing really catches your attention; it's just open shores and open waters. Since you're off the trade route path, there don't appear to be any other ships passing back and forth. It feels comforting to be so alone in some ways, but for some of you, it's strangely isolating. There may be a few moments throughout the next few days where you have to go below deck and not conjecture, you especially, Caduceus. This is--
Taliesin: I'm good in my head.
Matt: Day two and day three start getting a little hard on you to-- we've been traveling for 48 hours and literally everything looks exactly the same.
Taliesin: I'm going to start probably talking to fish at some point in the near future.
Matt: Okay. For the evening's watch on the second day, or this is technically the end of the first day.
Sam: I'll take a watch.
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Matt: Both of you guys roll for your perception.
Sam: Six-- nine!
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You continue on through the evening, uneventful.
Sam: Want any booze? Oh, you don't drink.
Taliesin: I don't drink.
Sam: Mind if I drink?
Taliesin: Not at all.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Out of idle curiosity, why have you been trying to butter me up?
Sam: Well, you joined us a little late in our adventures, but many of us-- not me, of course-- but many of us were maybe outcasts or whatever before. Over the course of spending some time together and traveling and doing some good things, mostly good things, but a few bad things together, we've come to rely on each other and well, it doesn't feel like we're outcasts as much anymore. Just trying to maintain that sense of a unit. Because even though we've made some mistakes and we'll probably continue to, it feels like we're a little bit better when we're together. This other fellow in the group, Mollymauk, he sort of showed us that... by dying. I'm just trying to keep us together.
Taliesin: Well.
Sam: We all have our own things, right? I'm sure you have your own thing.
Taliesin: I do, and for the record, I'm on board for now.
Sam: That's good.
Taliesin: I'll keep your boy safe, that's okay.
Sam: Thank you. He will definitely need lots of healing on this island. Between you and me, Jester's a really bad cleric, so-- it'd be good if you could just stick-- if I go right, you go left. You stick with Caleb.
Taliesin: I'm not an only child; I'm aware of how this works.
Sam: Okay. You have sisters and brothers?
Taliesin: Oh yeah.
Sam: Oh, that's right, you told us. You had a large family, but they're all scattered about, right?
Taliesin: They're somewhere, I suppose.
Sam: Are they trying to save your town? Is it a town? Is it your home?
Taliesin: It's just the temple ground, that's all there is to it.
Sam: They're out there trying to find a solution for whatever ails it?
Taliesin: That's why they left, yeah. That was the thought.
Sam: You've had no contact with them?
Taliesin: No. I was the last one left.
Sam: Well, I hope no one breaks in.
Taliesin: Well, I've resigned myself to the thought that it's entirely possible that someone will.
Sam: I'm not a religious lady, but I will tell you that, for me, this journey with this group has been a bit of a sign. I know that you're questioning whether it was for you, but--
Taliesin: What kind of sign?
Sam: A sign that there could be, for all of us, another chapter.
Taliesin: Wow, I thought I had you figured out. Never mind. All right.
Sam: I'm going to drink now.
Matt: (laughs) Finishing your watch, uneventful. As the evening comes in, other folks can take a shift, or you can leave it to any of your crew. You don't have to take every shift, but you have to rely on your crew to keep a watch.
Taliesin: NPCs!
Matt: Any plans for the evening?
Travis: I'll take the last watch. Is it at night at all?
Matt: This would be night, yeah. You've been captaining the ship for a full day.
Taliesin: Before I go to sleep, I'm going to politely ask any of the fish and things that are in the ocean to let us know if there's trouble up ahead. If they would be so kind.
Matt: Okay. You get the sense that the fish would be happy to, as they--
Taliesin: I'm a lunatic aren't I? There's just no--
Matt: No, it's great.
Taliesin: Okay, because I have a roll for this, but I'm okay.
Matt: You lean over the side of the boat and, talking to the fish that pass by-- you get the sense that it's like, (chorus of fish) "Sure." (laughter)
Travis: You can talk to them, but they can't talk back.
Matt: They're nowhere near as fast as the ship, so within the sphere of perception that a fish has, the ones that are now far behind you will definitely let you know when you come across something.
Taliesin: I don't know that.
Matt: I know. And I love playing that element.
Laura: (as a fish) Nice boat!
Travis: I'll hand off the wheel to someone and I'll go down to the side of the ship and I'll summon the falchion.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: With not a lot of people on the deck paying attention, hopefully, can I reach over the side and dip the tip of the sword into the ocean?
Matt: Sure. It drags through the water like any other blade would.
Travis: Does the eye do anything?
Matt: No, it doesn't react.
Travis: Okay. I'll summon it back.
Matt: Okay. Falchion's back whence it came.
Travis: (quietly) From whence it came.
Matt: Are you keeping watch?
Travis: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Make a perception check for me.
Travis: Ooh, seven.
Matt: Okay, nothing for the evening. Okay. As you're focusing on your blade on the side of the boat, as it gets close to midnight-- let me actually roll for the crew as well. Nope, okay. As you are checking your blade and looking around, you hear this sound that catches your ear. It's like (rustling), but it's up. Glancing up to the left of your vision, and there's a shape that's sitting up on one of the sails.
Laura: What the fuck? What is it?
Matt: Just a dark shape sitting up there on the sail.
Travis: Professor Thaddeus?
Matt: It's not moving.
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: It's so spooky.
Laura: It's so spooky.
Travis: (whistle) I'll sound a general alarm.
Matt: As you whistle, you see it has two wings, and it-- and takes off into the dark night.
Sam: What is it? What's going on?
Travis: There was something that took off from the mast; it had wings.
Laura: Was it a parrot? I hear there's parrots on pirate ships.
Travis: It was pretty large, right?
Matt: It looked humanoid-ish.
Laura: Humanoid-ish?
Matt: As far as size-wise, it looked like a human. You saw big wings and you saw legs dangling. It looked like a bird, but it was human-sized.
Marisha: Where is Yasha? I go down; is Yasha still sleeping, or is Yasha still here?
Matt: Yasha's asleep. You go down and Yasha sits up. As soon as you enter the room, the chamber that Yasha has--
Marisha: (shouting) Yasha, are you still here?
Matt: Before you even get to that point, the sound of the door opening, Yasha's like-- (panting).
Marisha: (shouting) Yasha's still here.
Matt: "Be careful, Beau." Puts the blade and leans it against the side of the cot and leans back.
Marisha: Just wanted to give you a quick update. Fjord saw a thing with two wings, appeared to be humanoid, flying off the boat, and just wanted to make sure--
Matt: Grabs the sword and gets back up and walks past you and up the stairs.
Marisha: (shouting) Yasha's coming.
Laura: What the fuck was it, Fjord?
Travis: I don't know. I didn't see, it's too dark.
Marisha: I'm going to turn around and do a scan of the horizon. Do I see anything?
Matt: Perception check, with disadvantage, because this is looking into far darkness.
Marisha: I'll put my goggles on just in casies.
Matt: Just in casies, sure. But still at disadvantage.
Marisha: Nine. Eight.
Matt: Glancing out, it looks like-- at this point, the moon is just starting to vanish in the distance, so there's not a lot of light, and it looks like a black, endless void around the ship with just a faint image of a blue line as a horizon in all directions.
Laura: Can I climb up to where it was and see if it left anything behind?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Like some poop.
Sam: Like some poop.
Laura: Like poop, or a feather, or--
Matt: You make your way up. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: A wallet.
Marisha: Look, personal identification.
Laura: 12.
Matt: You look and you can see-- it's dry, weathered wood; this mast has been in use for a while. You do see what appear to be some grooves, like large talons.
Laura: It had claws.
Liam: Oh hey. Rub a little phosphorus on and-- send a globule of light 120 feet in every direction from the boat, four of them, to see if there's anything.
Matt: Okay. As the lights drift out, at that moment, you watch as a series of shapes swoop in (squawking). In that instant, you watch as a cluster of harpies-- not coming towards you-- are now coming in and dive-bombing the sails. They're rushing in and trying to drag their claws through to put you dead in the water. From a narrative standpoint, go ahead and roll initiative.
Marisha: Jesus.
Sam: No, oh no. Laura asks a good question.
Laura: It was last campaign, Travis said.
Marisha: Here's my boots.
Matt: All right. 25 to 20?
Marisha: Sorry.
Sam: Oh, do you want someone to roll for Yasha?
Matt: Oh, yeah.
Liam: Matt'll do it.
Matt: Yeah, that's a 16.
Sam: Whoa, best roll ever.
Marisha: That's because Ashley's not here to roll initiative for herself. 20 for Beau.
Taliesin: Are we doing 25 to 20 still?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: We've been doing therapy talks for two and a half hours, Matt has to wake up now. We're on combat.
Matt: All right. 20 for Beau. 20 to 15?
Laura: 18.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Ooh, look at that.
Taliesin: There we are.
Travis: Yasha had 16.
Matt: Yep. Jester, Caduceus, Yasha. 15 to ten?
Travis: 11.
Sam: 11.
Liam: Nein. Oh no, I was saying no in German, excuse me. I did not roll a nine.
Matt: Nott, Fjord, and then Caleb, you're last?
Liam: Ja. Five.
Matt: All right. Harpies rolled a natural 20 on their initiative roll.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: With their plus one, that's a 21, so they're going first. You watch as six harpies come swooping in. Two of them land up on top and getting a view of who all's on the ship. The few crew that are currently running the deck start shouting, "Harpies!" and they start running. They're not hired to fight, and they go charging into the cabin below. They're both looking towards the guys who are running and they're both going to swoop down and see if they can go over to the deckhands.
Travis: Have they already slashed the sails?
Sam: No! Not our crew!
Matt: No, not yet. Those two haven't. One of them's going to swoop down-- that's cocked. No, not with a six. Manages to try and harry the guy and he kicks it off, manages to push through. The other one dives down to grab a second one. Does manage to do so. Claws sink in, not doing a whole lot of damage, but you watch as it grips into and begins lifting one of the deck hands. He's three or four feet off the ground, and he's like-- (yelling), and the harpy's lifting him up. Three of the others are going to tear through the sails, and one of them is about to land on the poop deck on the back towards the stern of the ship. The three are going to try to sweep across the sails. Yeah, that's a hit. That's a hit.
Laura: Fucker.
Matt: That's a miss. One of them attempts to try and grab towards the sail, but the way the wind is blowing, it can't actually get a hold of it and only does a slight tear on the side. The other two, however, with their claws-- seven, 13 points of damage to that sail. You hear the tearing sound as they both drag a series of open tears across the central sail on the main mast. You watch as the sail-- (flapping) the ship's starting to slow a little bit in that process. The one that lands in the back of the ship stops, wings out, inhales, and this voice begins to emerge, this strange, baleful-- (singing)-- this weird, ghostly voice that seems to emanate and then grow into its own chorus-- it's like a dirge, almost-- as it spreads out into the space. I need everybody to make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Ooh. Not my strength.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: Great.
Travis: 16.
Matt: That's a success.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Success.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: Fail.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Success.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Success. Roll for Yasha, if you don't mind. One of you.
Sam: 15 plus--
Matt: Everyone succeeds. You hear this and you feel this weird, faint grasp in your brain, this song beginning to placate your adrenaline, but then you shrug it off, except for Nott. Nott, you are charmed by this harpy. You listen to this music, and it's beautiful. You find yourself-- all the tension leaving your body, and you can't focus on anything else. You're just watching it there. You guys watch as Nott's arms drop, her weapon going limp to her side, her head turned slightly towards one shoulder and smiling, listening to this song. One of the crew that's not currently being held by the harpy almost makes it into the lower cabin, and then stops dead in his grasp and is also entranced by the song. The harpy continues to sing. All right, Beau, you're up first.
Marisha: With a quick glance, does it look like the sail is worth trying to save any further, or is it fucked? Just with a quick glance.
Matt: No, the sail is not completely destroyed, and it could be repaired, should they not continue to pull it apart.
Marisha: They look like they're still going for it?
Matt: It looks like it.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to run over and try and collapse the sail. So it's not unfurled, try and collapse it? I don't know if that's the right call.
Matt: You can give it a shot. All right. You have done a little bit of sail work. I'd say make a quick intelligence check. Having not been formally trained, necessarily, we'll see if you can--
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Yeah, in your time on the ship and studying how the different elements of the ship maneuver together to create motion and riding the wind, you figure out that one of the various ropes you pull and release and will cause the sail to entirely come down, or you could just pull it up and cause it to no longer be unfurled.
Marisha: Whatever's quickest.
Matt: Probably pull it in. You grab the rope and pull it up. Both the harpies are curving around for another series of attacks on it, but you're pulling that element of the sail up.
Marisha: Can I take a bonus action to do Patient Defense after I do that?
Matt: You can. Your arm holds the rope in place and you get yourself ready in case anything happens. That finishes your go. Jester, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Spiritual Weapon as my bonus action right above the singing harpy and try to slam it down upon her head.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: What-- that-- I don't know.
Taliesin: That was exciting.
Laura: I feel like that shouldn't count, but whatever. That is a 12.
Matt: 12 hits.
Laura: Oh, good!
Matt: They're not very hard to hit. They don't have a lot of armor, if at all. They're more just a little dexterous, but other than that-- you see these harpy forms. You see these humanoid female lithe bodies, naked, but their legs curl into these taloned, hawk-like feet. They have these sets of wings that come off of it, and their long stringy hair. Their faces are little--it goes beautiful to grotesque where the mouth itself seem almost like the lips are shrunk and shriveled, and series of sharpened, broken teeth are visible from where they open their mouth.
Laura: 12 damage.
Matt: 12 damage.
Laura: Then, I'm going to use my action to--
Sam: Action surge!
Laura: To cast Toll the Dead right over her head! And ring a bell right across it.
Matt: All right. What is--
Laura: Wisdom saving throw of 15.
Matt: Natural one. No.
Laura: Yeah! That's 2d12.
Sam: (like Sesame Street's The Count) A two, a D, a 12. Ah, ah, ah!
Laura: Seven points of damage. Ah, ah, ah!
Matt: You see the impact of the spiritual weapon, the large spinning lollipop cracking into her face. The song stops for a second, and the blast of divine energy in the middle of her head sets her off, but she pushes through and continues the song. Looks pretty hurt and is wondering what to do next. That finishes your turn, Jester?
Laura: Yeah, I guess. I'm on the sail, right? I'm on the top?
Matt: Yeah, you're up at the top looking down, and the two harpies that are spinning back, they definitely noticed you casting these spells.
Laura: Can I hold on? Can I grab onto rope or anything? Or is that like an action?
Matt: You can try to reach for something.
Laura: Could I consider my movement to like reach down and hold onto like--
Matt: I'll say you hold onto a rope, sure. That'll be your movement. Okay, that finishes Jester's turn. Caduceus?
Taliesin: First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to cast-- I'm going to get myself into a reasonable position and I'm going to cast-- where did it go? There it is. Calm Emotions. In theory, if this is a charm spell, and this counts as a charm if I'm correct, you can just fail a charisma save, if you'd like.
Sam: What? How does this-- Huh? Who?
Matt: What are you attempting to do here?
Taliesin: I'm going to use Calm Emotions to negate the charmed effect on Nott, and anybody within 20 feet of me. Actually, anyone within 20 feet of it. I'm going to run a few feet away from you, I'm going to take my staff and I'm going to pull piece of silverware and bang that crystal. It's going to make a dissonant sound and wakey-wakey.
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: I will say, because technically--
Taliesin: Charisma saving throw a creatures can choose to fail this saving throw if it wishes.
Matt: Well no, there is no saving throw if they're suppressing it. So it just happens. Suddenly, the song that's entrancing you, you shake out of it as Caduceus finishes muttering this phrase and you feel the clarity come to your mind once more.
Sam: That was awesome.
Taliesin: We've got work to do.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: This also affects the other deckhands.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I'm just basically disrupting that song as long as it's within a certain range for about a minute. I'm also going to use my bonus action to wake up the bugs.
Matt: The mass of winged beetles begin to clatter out in a cloud.
Taliesin: The one that's singing, I'm going to roll it towards the lollipop.
Matt: Okay. They rush in there.
Taliesin: Snack time.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack. It's a d20.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Yeah, that'll definitely hit. That is 2d--
Taliesin: I got to fix this at some point.
Matt: Yeah, I'll make a print out. Remind me to make a print out for you since this is having a hard time.
Taliesin: I know. We just haven't had time to fix anything.
Matt: I know.
Sam: Why not?
Matt: Yeah, it is 4d4.
Taliesin: That's right. That's ooh! 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage?
Laura: Beetle damage!
Taliesin: I don't even know what just happened.
Marisha: Caduceus is back!
Matt: Okay. The beetles are now swarming this harpy who's taken bludgeoning. It is now bleeding profusely, and you can only see part of her torso and she's like (screeching). The song is dropped, and now is trying to fly away as she's picking up her wings, as these beetles are now tearing into her flesh. That ends your turn, Caduceus?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Yasha's turn. There's the two that are up on top, darting down to pick up the guy. The one that's currently holding the other deckhand, Yasha's going to rush forward, since it's technically within her melee range. She's going to rush forward and take two strikes. If someone wants to roll for her.
Sam: I will.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Nope, that's not a d20. A ten and a one.
Matt: All righty. The ten hits, the one does not.
Sam: Great.
Liam: I'm sure some stuff was added to the ten.
Matt: All right. No, it's 3d6 actually.
Laura: I want to do that.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah! Teamwork!
Laura: Oh. Six!
Sam: My rolls were better!
Laura: Your rolls would've been better.
Matt: Great, okay.
Laura: You rolled a one on your hit. We both suck.
Matt: Yasha carves through a large chunk of it. The harpy still holds onto the deckhand, but is unable to make a drop. This brings us to Nott and Fjord.
Sam: Is anyone in melee range with anyone else?
Matt: Currently, there is the one holding the deckhand that Yasha just attacked.
Sam: I'm going to shoot at that one.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Okay. 15.
Matt: That hits.
Sam: Sneak attack.
Matt: They're not very armored or dexterous creatures.
Sam: 18 points of damage!
Matt: 18 points of damage, nice. Blasts! You see it has to right itself, she's flapping her wings, but still holding on and trying now desperately to just get away. There's no attempt to interface; she has her quarry and is about to bolt.
Sam: Fire again, bonus action!
Marisha: Kill it.
Sam: Oh, not good. 11.
Matt: 11 just hits.
Laura: 11 hits!
Sam: Hits! Whoa! No sneak attack. Eight points of damage.
Matt: Eight points of damage. Yeah, that'll do it. As it's flying away, it gets about ten or so feet up, and the deckhand is screaming "Ah! Help me!"
Sam: I've got you, nameless deckhand!
Matt: The bolt hits it, spins in the air, a cluster of feathers, then slams down hard on the deck of the ship. The deckhand also hits, and rolls, and hits the side of the ladder that leads up to the poop deck. He's like (groaning) and now starting to freak out looking at the other harpies that are circling. There's still five of them.
Sam: I'll use my movement to run over to the deckhand and be like: You're okay now!
Matt: "Ah!"
Sam: You're fine!
Matt: All right. Fjord?
Travis: I'll aim two Eldritch Blasts up at one of the two harpies that's flying up above the mast.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 19 on the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: And the second one is, ooh, 25.
Matt: Both hit.
Travis: That is-- oh shit, where is the 1d10? Ten!
Matt: Ten points of damage on the first one--
Travis: Nope, no! Sorry, I was calling that out like an idiot. 11 points of damage on the first one, and seven points of damage on the second one.
Matt: All right. You turn around, glancing up at them, release that one blast of eldritch energy that crackles and spins, slamming into each of them up in the air, and lights up the sky above the mast. You can see through the diffusing of the impacts behind the sails on the opposite side of the deck, for those of you on the other end of the ship. As both of them spin into a circle, taking pain from the impact, but then right themselves, looking down to the source of this angry, aggressive act.
Travis: That's it.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Caleb.
Liam: How far up the mast could you say I could climb with my movement? Is that half speed?
Matt: With your movement, it would be half speed and I'd say, for you, who's not a necessarily an accomplished climber, it would be an athletics check.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Necessarily an "accomplished climber."
Taliesin: Indoor kid.
Liam: How high does the mast go?
Matt: The mast would go up probably 25, 30 feet.
Liam: Nevermind. I will stand at the mast and I will pull a white feather out of my coat and trace a baleful glyph in the air and cast Fear, and they must make a wisdom saving at 16.
Matt: Both of them?
Liam: Anything within 30 feet of Caleb.
Matt: Anything within 30 feet of Caleb?
Sam: Anything?
Liam: Enemies.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: That would get three of them. The one that failed to grab the other guy is just out of range.
Travis: There's only three left, right?
Matt: There's five left, technically.
Travis: I thought there were only five?
Sam: There were six--
Matt: There were six total. One's died, one of them's close to death, and there are two wounded, and two that have been untouched.
Travis: Oh, the song broke, it didn't die.
Liam: 16 wisdom save.
Matt: That's a failure. That's a failure. And that's a success! The one that had missed one of the deckhands and is on an up-swoop doesn't seem affected. The two by the mast immediately, as the glyph completes, and there's this very subtle burst of dark, dull-green shadow energy that emanates from you. Both of them (shrieking) and are going to start getting the fuck out of Dodge. All right, that ends your turn, Caleb?
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: Back to the top of the round, harpies. Those two harpies full dash, full run, go spinning back in the direction they came. As far away from you as they can get.
Liam: Auf Wiedersehen!
Matt: Those two, for the time being, are out of the way. Let's see if they can make their save. Nope!
Liam: They have to be out of line of sight. If they can see there's me on the boat--
Matt: That's true, yeah.
Liam: That's what the spell says.
Matt: Yeah, facing away doesn't matter. Yeah, no, they're still running.
Liam: See ya!
Matt: Okay. There's the one on the back that's near death, it's going to attempt to fly away as well. It's going to move and dash. That's 80 feet out, and it's trying to catch up with the other two. Now there's three of them fleeing. That one, that one, and that one. All right. The two that are attacking-- there's two that are attacking the mast. One picked him one, one that's singing. I know, I'm trying to remember where it is. Okay, yeah. There we go. There's the one that tried to grab the one deckhand, it's going to swoop down and try and grab him again because he hasn't made his way fully in. Does manage to grab him. Swoops down, only gets partial, only 15 feet up with him. That's its turn. Let's see, the other two are going to go ahead-- Two are fleeing. That's fleeing. Oh, there's only one that's free. That one is going to attempt to attack one of the other sails because there's multiple sails up at that point. A smaller one. You know what? No, it's going to come after you since you're the one that's holding the sail. It's going to swoop down and attack you with claws.
Marisha: Come at me, bitch.
Matt: That is a-- actually surprising, an 18.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: I think that misses you. Oh, it's at disadvantage, too, because you have your--
Marisha: Patient Defense.
Matt: Yes. Second attack. Yeah, misses with both.
Liam: You motherfucker.
Matt: It's going to attempt to move 15 feet away from you with the rest of its movement.
Marisha: Pop!
Matt: Go for it. Make an attack.
Sam: Punch attack!
Travis: Didn't we say we weren't going to try and solve things with fists?
Sam: Yeah, let's talk it out.
Marisha: It's all I have!
Travis: (cawing)
Marisha: 13. I believe that hits.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Marisha: This is unarmed, ooh, ten total!
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Max damage!
Matt: And it cannot move. It's less of a punch, but more of like with your open hand, you grab the back her leg and slam the harpy on the edge of the boat. It gets dragged down and thrust down on the edge of the railing and crack a rib, and it's trying to get out of your grasp and it manages to pull free, but now is right there next to you. Couldn't get much further. You get the sense now that they're retreating. This was a quick harrying. They didn't expect quite so much resistance, and most of them are wanting to get the hell out. With that knowledge, Beau, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to use the rope that I'm holding onto, and I'm going to use that to lift myself up and do like a little swinging double-kick action to this harpy.
Matt: I love it. Go ahead and make your two attacks.
Marisha: Little Cirque du Soleil shit. Both hit. That's a 16 and a 19.
Matt: That's correct. Go ahead and roll damage for each.
Liam: Bop bop!
Marisha: Pop pop. For both of them.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: Yeah, high rolls!
Marisha: Eight plus five is 13 plus another six is 19.
Sam: Oof.
Matt: 19 points of damage. Both kicks (whack whack) to the harpy as she's trying to get back up on the air; ends up knocking her back onto the deck. (angry crowing)
Marisha: Still up?
Matt: Still up and is now is going to continue to try and make an escape.
Marisha: I'm going to take the rope and wrap it around my fist once and pop with my bonus action. No, Flurry of Blows. Two attacks. Pop. Pop.
Liam: Come on, Beauregard!
Marisha: Let me roll for two attacks. Okay, that is 14 for one and a natural 19 for the other.
Matt: Yeah, roll damage.
Marisha: Ten damage.
Matt: Ten damage total?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: With the next hit, you go ahead and just punch past the face and then with the other hand you wrap the rope around her throat then release. You watch the tension of the sail as it unfurls and snaps the neck of the harpy and drags her up and is now dangling from the rope as the sail is now unfurled again, still torn.
Travis: Did you do that on purpose?
Sam: Wind physics.
Marisha: It was better results than I expected.
Laura: Always say yes!
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: That finishes up Beau's turn. Jester, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my spiritual weapon to send it to the harpy that is trying to get that guy off the ground.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: Nine plus seven, it hits.
Matt: Yes, roll damage.
Laura: Eight points of damage to him.
Matt: That was the first time that it's been wounded. It gets hit by the large, spiritual lollipop as it's trying to carry off the deckhand, still holding on.
Laura: I think I'm going to use Guiding Bolt on the one that was flying away that was singing.
Matt: Okay, go for it. It's quite a ways away and you can see it (flapping).
Laura: I get 120 feet.
Matt: Yeah, definitely within 120 feet, so go ahead and roll for the attack on that.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Matt: Level one?
Laura: Yes, level one.
Matt: It looks pretty hurt.
Laura: I don't know what I add to it.
Taliesin: It should be right above.
Laura: It's an 18, I get 18 plus whatever.
Matt: Yeah, it's your spell attack bonus. The same as your spiritual weapon.
Laura: Oh, okay plus seven. It's good.
Matt: 4d6.
Laura: Oh, come on. Seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage. As you bring the spiritual weapon down, you turn to see the other one flying away. You release the bolt of vibrant, radiant energy. It streaks off right as it's flying, heading it off. You quickly aim, watching its arc and as it flies away (impact) (screeching). You watch this burst of light as its body tumbles and sploosh into the ocean water below. Jester, that finishes your turn. Caduceus, you're up.
Taliesin: Sure. Yeah. There's one that's trying to get away with one of our deckhands?
Matt: Correct, it's been hit once.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm just going to nuts and bolts this. I don't suppose my insect swarm can attack for a bonus action?
Matt: It can't get close enough, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Well, then.
Matt: Yeah, the other harpy pulled away from it. It can move closer, but it's not going to--
Taliesin: I guess I'll do a Guiding Bolt at level three.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I just saw you that. I'm like  Ah.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's 19, so that's 6d6.
Laura: Damn.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: Caduceus, looking at the swarm, turns around, holds the staff in the air towards the one taking off with one of your deckhands and when you saw the bright beam--
Taliesin: 16 points of damage.
Matt: Ooh! Spins around and releases a far heavier and brighter burst of light that streaks into and blasts into the harpy, wobbles in the air for a second. The energy explodes and is now spinning, keeping this weird shifting, like an atom spin around the outside of its body. The next attack has advantage because of Guiding Bolt. It's looking pretty hurt, too.
Laura: Show off.
Matt: That finishes Caduceus's round.
Sam: Is it carrying our deckhand over open water now?
Laura: Not yet.
Matt: No, not yet.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Yasha's turn. Yasha-- it just grabbed him and is trying to pull away. Yasha's-- I don't think Yasha's close enough to hit and melee it, it pulled him up too high.
Travis: "Throw the sword," no.
Matt: Yeah, she's not going to do that.
Travis: Fuck!
Matt: Yeah, that's not happening. There's not much Yasha can do right now.
Laura: Can she jump and swing?
Matt: Not really. Sorry. Yasha's going to get underneath though, and prepare in case it does get knocked down a peg or whatever, just gets the sword at the ready and is eyeballing it angrily, and is going to rage because that's fun. All right, that brings us to Nott and Fjord.
Sam: I will fire at the thing. With my crossbows.
Matt: You do have disadvantage though, because it's out of your firing range, although you can probably move up closer and get within range. It's up to you, you can do that.
Marisha: The deckhand one?
Sam: Yeah, there's only one left, right? No? Maybe?
Taliesin: I think so, yeah.
Laura: Yeah, there's one left.
Sam: I only rolled an 11.
Taliesin: But you also have advantage because it's got Guiding Bolt.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, that helps.
Matt: 11 does hit, but--
Sam: Oh, well that's even better, 17 to hit.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Sneak attack, because it's-- no, it's holding the friend.
Matt: Not technically -- it's holding, yeah, and it's not even an ally who's in combat with it, so.
Sam: It's an employee. Seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points of damage, all right. (arrow sound) Still flying.
Sam: I'll shoot again, one more time.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Sam: 18 to hit.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Only eight more points of damage.
Marisha: That's pretty good.
Matt: That'll do it. (cheering)
Matt: And all out of hit points. So (arrow sound) the second one, you watch as it goes (pained sounds) and it begins to just careen down towards the edge of the ship.
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: It's about to slam-- we'll see, there's a percentage chance here.
Sam: Ooh, percentage dice?
Matt: I'm going to roll a percentile dice to see if it hits either on the deck, or over the edge. No, it hits on the deck.
Sam: Oh, nice.
Matt: 50% chance of either. It crashes in to the other guy, slams in to the side of the railing, manages to pull free and catches up with the other guy as they both run inside the ship. At this point, the other harpies now are just--
Travis: Bugging out.
Matt: Bugging out and fleeing.
Marisha: Threats are all gone more or less?
Matt: At the moment-- by the time your spell would wear off, there are none to be seen.
Laura: Can I hang from my rope that I was holding on to and slowly start casting Mending on the sail?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Oh, smart.
Liam: Caleb clutches his chest and cries out and falls to the floor of the boat. (gasping)
Sam: Oh no, it's his condition!
Laura: (shouting) What's wrong with Caleb?!
Sam: It's a heart condition!
Travis: Since when?!
Sam: He always has had one since he was a boy.
Travis: Do you have any medicine for him?
Sam: Yes! He needs mouth to mouth resuscitation.
Travis: Well, get at it!
Sam: No, no, no. My mouth is too small for a human jaw to make perfect contact.
Travis: Just cup his nose, just (breathes).
Sam: No, I can't get my mouth wide enough, too many teeth are in the way!
Laura: I'll do it!
Sam: That would be good, you or Beau really.
Laura: I drop down. I have, like, really good medicine training.
Sam: All right.
Laura: (exhaling heavily)
Matt: Okay. Well Caleb, just for the sake of it, roll a deception check.
Liam: Ja, sure.
Travis: "Ja, sure."
Matt: Just out of curiosity.
Liam: It's pretty good. 20.
Travis: Caleb, always pretending he's hurt.
Matt: Caleb is having a rough -- a terrible -- yeah, all right, so just-- so are you --
Laura: I'm going to try to blow into his mouth as hard as I can.
Travis: You know how much that hurts?
Matt: Yeah, it's super uncomfortable, Caleb.
Sam: I think it'll help-- he's still not out of the woods, I think we all need to pray.
Liam: (strained) That's not what I was expecting!
Laura: Oh good, you're alive!
Travis: Do you want to lead the prayer?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Oh, thank goodness! You know I'm such a fearful person.
Sam: Oh, maybe he's okay.
Liam: I'm always getting scared of things and that one was too much for me.
Travis: He could be on the edge of life and, maybe the prayer.
Laura: I start climbing back up.
Marisha: Glad you're not dead again, buddy.
Liam: I look over at Nott.
Sam: Wow! You guys, we saved his life with the power of friendship!
Travis: Was that-- I thought it was Jester's healing.
Sam: Yeah, but we all were there to pitch in.
Travis: I just watched.
Liam: Caleb is beet red. Beet red. Face matches his hair.
Taliesin: I don't understand anything that just--
Travis: How do we prevent further heart episodes from--
Sam: More friendship! Just more friendship.
Travis: More friendship?
Liam: No, we just need to not be attacked by anything anymore, we need to just stop pursuing our pursuits, and pick an island and stay there.
Marisha: Are you saying you want to retire from adventuring life, Caleb?
Travis: Beau, go give Caleb a hug.
Liam: I feel pretty good, I feel like--
Marisha: You're so-- why are you so stiff?
Travis: Like a Voldemort hug.
Liam: This is feeling like it's going too far, Nott.
Sam: (hisses) It's working!
Marisha: We've only done this once before, Caleb. It's still weird, I just want to point that out. Okay, let go of me. Get off, yeah.
Liam: Is it hot? Feels hot.
Laura: (whispers) 12.
Matt: No sign of any harpies.
Travis: How's that sail coming, Jester?
Laura: I'm working on it!
Matt: It takes a short time but you manage to, in the next ten minutes or so, feel comfortable that you've mended most of what the harpies had done.
Taliesin: I'm going to go down and let the crew know that everything seems to be copacetic upstairs.
Matt: The two crew that you hired who already rushed in there are in the process of telling the story of what they just saw. They're like, "And then there was a blasting light up there! It was crazy!"
Taliesin: Hey, everything seems to have calmed down upstairs, everything seems fine. I think I'm going to try blintzes for breakfast tomorrow. I feel like we could all use a treat.
Matt: You notice half of them go, "Yeah!"
Taliesin: They don't know what I'm making them out of, but yeah.
Matt: No. And the other half are like, "Blintzes?"
Travis: Are we putting limits on your cuisine, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Not anymore! I now have the song "Every Little Piece" from Pete's Dragon going through my head.
Sam: There's a harpy dead on deck, right?
Matt: Two of them.
Sam: I'm going to definitely butcher one of them and try to take some meat for myself, and for the crew.
Matt: Go ahead and make a general medicine check.
Sam: Oh my goodness.
Matt: I'll say with disadvantage because you're not too familiar with the body of a harpy.
Sam: Eight.
Matt: You butcher it. That's a gamey-ass harpy. You do get some meat. To you it looks delicious, but everyone else, you're like, "I'm good." You get like a pound.
Sam: I want some wing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Maybe they can deep fry it.
Matt: It's pretty sinewy.
Taliesin: Do we have an empty barrel?
Laura: I bought a couple barrels.
Matt: You guys bought a number of barrels. You filled a lot of them--
Taliesin: Whatever is left over if you could put in there, and I'm going to start something and hopefully something--
Sam: Like a stock?
Marisha: He wants his dead people tea.
Taliesin: I don't know what I'm going to get, I've never tried harpy before. It could be mushrooms, could be anything.
Travis: Start something.
Liam: Some bone broth, maybe?
Taliesin: I'm going to give it a little zing and see what I get.
Marisha: Seeing Nott butcher the harpy, I go  Ooh! I look in my pocket and I pull out owl Frumpkin. Is owl Frumpkin okay?
Matt: Owl Frumpkin is fine.
Marisha: Hey! Sorry about that.
Matt: (owl hoot)
Marisha: Back in my pocket.
Travis: Start moving his feet and his eyes stay in the same place.
Marisha: I make his head dance a little bit.
Liam: I rolled for him last week and he appropriately only has one hit point.
Matt: Good to keep that in mind. As you bring your things in for the evening, that comes to a close; your second full day of travel, now the following morning, comes to bear. Who's keeping watch for this day?
Taliesin: Sure, I'll take that.
Matt: Make a perception check for me please.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's terrible. 13.
Matt: 13, okay. For the day, you don't see anything. You do-- no, you don't see anything. Okay. Ocean! All wide ocean.
Travis: Are you listening underneath the boat? Using your sonar?
Matt: Yeah, what are you doing with your barrel?
Taliesin: I just was going to put anything that was dead now, and I was just going to see if I could maybe start either-- I don't know what they're going to make, but I'm curious if it's going to be anything I can either eat or use as a spice.
Matt: Okay, so you just begin to Decompose.
Taliesin: I'm using the Decompose and ferment and maybe hopefully getting some mushrooms or something, I don't know what harpies make. We'll find out.
Matt: You'll find out. It'll be a little while. You watch as the start of various fungus and fuzzy mold begins to appear at edges of its corpse. You've started it; a couple days, maybe you'll have something that will give you an idea what is growing.
Taliesin: Yeah, if it's good I keep it, if it's bad I toss it.
Matt: Next evening? All right, go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: I don't know why I keep volunteering for fucking perception. 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. Make your survival check for me as the captain, please. With advantage, because you have Orly on board.
Travis: 12.
Matt: That's successful, you're not picking up any additional speed like you were the day before... okay, uneventful. At one point you pass by a few small rock islands, bits of stone that are breaking through the surface, too far away to make any details. They're not large; one set appears to be maybe ten, 12 feet across, the other one looks to be about 40 or so feet across. Just little breaks in the water, where a little mass of stone has breached, but that's all you can make out. The evening goes by, uneventful. By the third day, the morning comes around, Orly comes up to the top, comes to you and goes, "Excuse me, Captain. I'm keeping tabs on our travels southward, I can see the reef is approaching."
Travis: Excellent. (laughter) Well, let's prepare to navigate through it!
Taliesin: Such captaining.
Travis: I just picked it as a backstory, I didn't know I'd need to know fucking anything about sailing! Jesus.
Sam: Someone get Travis a subscription to Sailing Monthly or something.
Matt: There are different-- see those Y marks? Each one of those is going to be a survival check to try and maneuver the boat through the reef.
Laura: Do we get advantages on those or something?
Matt: Yes, because you have Orly with you, and Orly is working with you side by side, holding up the map and looking at the scenery. A lot of the crew's on the deck as well keeping eyes out.
Liam: The dodecahedron!
Sam: The dodecahedron!
Laura: Oh, yeah, yeah! Focus on this, Fjord!
Liam: Take a huff.
Matt: You have your Fragment of Possibility.
Travis: These are survival checks?
Matt: Yes, with advantage. For the first one--
Travis: 16.
Matt: You guys can now see-- at first it just looks like open water, but then as you begin to maneuver past the first section, looking down 20 feet, 15 feet, ten feet, some of them barely breaching the surface, you can see these colorful reefs that are full of vibrant life, all sorts of manner of sea creatures and fish going through, and within a very short distance you can see broken wood. You can see other ships, the remnants of which have been scattered across the reef, and have since been overgrown. Carefully making your way through this gap, you manage to curve slightly one bit, the back of your stern scrapes at one point on one edge, but any damage would be superficial, and you manage to maneuver past where you can see one set of sticks that have been tied together and embedded into the reef just below, just barely peeking past-- breaking the surface. And that's the first sign you see of one of those points.
Liam: (pirate voice) Dead men tell no tales.
Matt: Now that you've seen it, that's going to be your guiding point for each portion of this reef. You and Orly both, going through and traversing this, you can see the next path before you. Both of you together, go ahead and make another survival check with advantage.
Travis: Got to use the dodeca.
Matt: All right, roll one more. You only roll one more, so pick one and roll it.
Travis: That's a ten.
Matt: Total is a ten?
Travis: Survival is minus two for me.
Sam: Minus two? You're our fucking captain!
Travis: Not very wise!
Matt: All right then. As you make your way through the next portion of the reef, turning it over, you hear it impact a heavy portion of the reef, scraping across it. The ship's hull does take damage.
Laura: Gallan, go! Go fix it!
Matt: Okay, that is 11 points of hull damage. Eventually pulls past and dislodges from the
Matt: reef. Looking behind, you can see parts of it that are broken and falling in and pieces of wood that have been dragged off and splintered. The crew rushes down inside and making an investigation check-- pretty high-- they do not see any damage to the hull that's taking on water, but that was not a happy thing. You do not know how many more of those type of hits you'll take before the ship begins to take on water and they can't do repairs to the hull unless it's in a port of some kind.
Travis: There's not a hit point counter on the wheel? That's ticky tock?
Laura: I'm going to stay down where it was and cast Mending as much as possible.
Matt: You have no visual perspective on it. All the damage is below the surface of the water.
Laura: Oh, yeah. At all. I'm just going to keep my hands on the--
Matt: Just in case. Okay.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Keeping low. All right, so that's the second one. You're marking each of these that you pass by?
Travis: Yeah. One and two. We're on the third.
Matt: We're on the third.
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: Go ahead and try again now.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay! The channel you've made your way through in the reef is getting narrower and you can see elements of the reef are beginning to vanish into just jutting pieces of stone. It looks like, in a weird way from a distance, like a series of gravestones. Familiar to you as you pass by as bits of rock are breaking the surface, some at odd angles and there were semblances of stone spires that naturally jut from underneath the water that the reef is built on over time. The channel gets thinner here, but thankfully after that last hit, you dig deep in yourself and be like, "No, I've seen ships go through this, I'm getting the feel for this whole captain thing," and between you and Orly communicating, you manage to just make it through the channel. At a point, all of you hold your breath as you see elements of the reef that should be wide enough to put maybe a ship that's slightly larger than the one you have in, but with even just a small narrow margin of failure here, you would've ground against the side of one or the other side. You cut straight through perfectly, balancing on both sides, coming past the third marker beneath the surface, this one breaking through about a foot past the water. As you spin around, you guys begin to just barely see the shadowed landmass of an island beginning to appear as your destination. As you come to the final portion of the reef's channel, go ahead and make your final check.
Laura: Come on, Tusktooth!
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13. You come through the last portion of this. It's a very tight location and you and Orly look back and forth. You may have been a little off in the portion of the reef you thought you were supposed to take through this broken channel and as you do-- it seems fine, and you're looking at the front of the ship, a bunch of them gathered at the bow, and look over, both on port and starboard side and go, "I think we'll be all right!" (crashing)
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: Grinds over a portion of the reef, the ship jolts. It wasn't a hard hit. You're just grinding over the top of it and you're breaking a lot of the reef right there in the process of doing so. You don't take as much damage as the last hit, but you do take some damage. That's a bad roll. You take nine more hull damage. With that, Jester, (whooshing) water begins to pour in from the side. This is less of just mending a small object; this is structural hull damage.
Laura: Gallan! Gallan, come on, carpenter!
Sam: Gallan, wake up!
Matt: A single break or tear in an object you touch. Mending is not going to help you with this.
Laura: No.
Matt: Gallan and anybody who wants to come help, the hull is now taking on water.
Laura: Yeah, I want to help block it.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing to help block it?
Laura: I'm going to--
Matt: It's essentially a one, one-and-a-half foot long break and the wood is torn away, it's broken apart, and there's a gap where the water's now pouring in.
Laura: Is there any furniture I can rip apart and we can nail to it real fast?
Matt: Make a perception check real fast as you glance around the chamber.
Laura: That dropped out of my hand, it shouldn't count. Aw, it was so much better when it didn't. Nine.
Sam: Oh, rough.
Matt: Looking around, there's some of the barrels and in the various quarters of the interior of the ship there's some cots and there's some sacks and whatever supplies people brought with them. Nothing comes to mind, looking around. You're kind of panicking. All the rest of the crew are suddenly coming down they're starting to get a bucket chain, trying to just get water out of there as they have no idea at the moment. Gallan gets his tools, starts looking around for whatever scrap materials they had purchased. You're now an inch of water in the bottom of the ship. Anyone else doing anything to help here?
Sam: Some barrels. Come on, captain, tell us what to do!
Travis: I have no idea.
Sam: You're the fucking captain!
Travis: Abandon ship!
Sam: No!
Laura: Can I use one of the barrels and start scooping the water into the barrel and lift the barrel up and out and try to carry it?
Marisha: Me and Yasha help with the barrel-train.
Matt: You guys are slowing the water coming on board.
Sam: Oh, Caleb! You're a wizard, freeze the water!
Liam: I am not able to do that.
Sam: Ah!
Laura: Can we take the barrel that I was holding the water in and stick it over the hole and then hold it?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Marisha: I miss my druid.
Matt: Yeah. Yasha goes and grabs the other side of the barrel and both of you go try and force and hold it there.
Liam: I start working on Leomund's Tiny Hut. It's going to take some time.
Matt: All right. How much time?
Liam: Ten minutes. 11 minutes, yeah.
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a strength check, with Yasha's help, with advantage.
Laura: Okay. Goddamn it, really? 12.
Matt: 12. You hold the barrel over and it seals. (bursting water) You're holding it there but it's spraying around the edges. The barrel immediately fills, and you're now trying to cork the hole with this barrel and it's just (spraying sounds) all around you--
Sam: Fjord, go swim down on the outside and plug it from the outside. Go!
Marisha: With what?!
Sam: Bring something!
Marisha: What?
Sam: Some pieces of wood!
Taliesin: Do we have a mattress or something like that? Do we have anything?
Matt: They're less mattresses in the ship. There are cots. There is actually a mattress in the captain's quarters. There's the one mattress.
Travis: Sure, I'll drag that out and jump over the side and try and push up against the hole.
Marisha: It's fabric!
Matt: Is that what you're doing?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to join you and tie ourselves off and I'm going to also cast Water Walk if you're into it on--
Travis: I'm thrilled. We can still go underwater though, right?
Matt: Yeah, and you can walk on the surface if you choose to.
Taliesin: I'm going to give you Water Walk for the moment because you're probably stronger than I am. I should probably not do this.
Marisha: I'll go up there and hold that safety line that you were talking about.
Taliesin: You've got Water Walk.
Travis: I throw the mattress in, I jump in after it, and I try and go under--
Matt: You can stand on the surface and then, below--
Taliesin: There's a suction.
Matt: You get below and you get the mattress-- what do you do?
Travis: I press it against the outside of the ship and hope the current (suctioning).
Matt: Okay, make a perception check because it's under the water and you're not entirely certain where-- there's a large scrape section where a lot of the reef pulled against the hull.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yeah. Glancing down, as you're about to go help, you look and you can see, of all the damage that's taken that's superficial, there's one section where it looks like a heavy groove is carved out from that last impact, and there you can see this faint shift of the water pouring through that gap. You take and hold down the mattress and it pulls against it. It's there in place-- the suction's holding it. You're not sure how long it'll hold there without anything holding it in place.
Taliesin: I'm going to run down below and-- all right, fix it! Fix it, now! Got to get it up! I start trying to pull the barrels apart--
Matt: Gallan, at this point, has his tools and starts handing out nails left and right. He brought an additional set of tools so two of you can--
Taliesin: I'm also going to cast Light in there to make it super, super light.
Matt: While you're brightening that, Gallan's over there. He's hammering in the nails--
Laura: I'll help.
Matt: Two barrels down, pulled apart to get materials to try and patch this.
Marisha: I'm still part of the water bucket brigade.
Liam: Correction for me, not 11 minutes, 20 minutes. Still doing it.
Sam: I'm on the top of the-- crow's nest? Is that what it's called?
Matt: Crow's nest is the very top.
Sam: As far away from the water as possible.
Matt: Okay. "Looking good!"
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, great. You're there. Because the ship is still moving, you're having to hold it in place while walking on the side. It seems to be holding itself okay for the time being, just from the pressure of the water, but it's starting to slide off as it goes. It's a weird scenario where now that it's blocking the section, there's no suction, there's just the pressure of the water, but as it moves it is sliding along with it.
Travis: I'll take the sword, shove it-- no, I'm just kidding.
Matt: All right. Jester, you're helping out with the repairs? Make a general d20 check.
Laura: Two.
Matt: Aw.
Marisha: Aw.
Matt: I lost that d20, I'll pick that up later. Oh! Natural 20 on Gallan's turn. If you needed that any time, it's fucking now!
Laura: Ooh, Gallan!
Matt: Gallan sees you mucking up. (grunting) "Let me do it, hold on. Here's how you place it over-- fuck it. Shit." He does it himself. He goes to town, and earns his keep since he arrived here. One by one, begins taking the best parts of the barrel that Yasha helped him break, begins holding it in place. "Hold this here!" He starts nailing it down. Eventually, over the 20 or so minutes it takes for him to cast the spell, he patches it in a way where he's like, (Scottish accent) "This will hold for a little bit. But we're going to have--" Why'd I go Scottish there for a second? "This will hold for a little bit. I don't know how long. We're going to have to figure out some way to fix this, get it to shore, or something."
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yes, of course.
Matt: (sighs) "Okay."
Travis: I say from outside the boat  Yeah.
Matt: As you're walking alongside the boat, it's going to pick up speed a little bit here. You're going to have to either have to let this mattress go or find a way to keep it in place. What are you going to do?
Travis: I'll let it go.
Matt: Okay. The mattress slides away and you see water (spraying). It's a slow leak. It is still taking on water, but slowly.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: It's a patch job. When Caleb returns, he can tell us what the fuck he was planning with the spell.
Travis: I'll tug on the line and get myself pulled back up into that boat.
Sam: We're taking on water?!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Oh god. We have to-- anything non-essential just throw overboard!
Laura: No, no, no.
Travis: We got to get the crow's nest out of the boat.
Sam: No, everything overboard. Everything! The sails, everything.
Matt: The crew now rapidly getting the water out of the bottom of the cargo hold. They're throwing it overboard. You gather with the slow leak, in the next couple hours they'll be able to minimize the amount of water that's below there.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a little island nearby?
Travis: Yes, we've done the final turn, so we could try and push towards the island, but we're going to have to beach it.
Matt: You guys are now turning towards the island and it's an open bay now. You passed the reef, and you're heading towards the island of Urukayxl.
Taliesin: Is there anywhere that looks like a dock, or anywhere that looks like it's appropriate to--?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: Yeah, I am. I think that's right, 26.
Matt: 26. No dock, but you do see another ship.
Sam: Ah!
Travis: What's your spell do?
Laura: What was your spell doing?
Liam: I'm making the tiny hut, but I don't know how much time has passed while I was peeing.
Matt: 20 minutes as they've try to makeshift plug the hole. It's a slow leak still, but they've managed to hold it off.
Liam: A ten-foot radius, immobile dome of force springs into existence around and above you and remains stationary for the duration. Environment or weather can't get in, so that's up to you if the ocean can get in or not.
Matt: I would say-- you know what, that's clever. I will say if you choose not to let the ocean in, it will not.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: It is totally transparent. All of us can look through it and see into the ocean.
Sam: Glass bottom boat!
Liam: Glass bottom boat!
Matt: There you go.
Laura: How long will it stay?
Liam: Eight hours.
Laura: Nice. Long enough for us to patch it up.
Liam: I can certainly, 20 minutes in advance, get it going again. As long as I can focus, indefinitely.
Travis: We've approached the island. We have another boat.
Taliesin: How do you want to play this?
Travis: What?
Taliesin: That's another boat. Are we making ourselves known or are we not making ourselves known?
Laura: Off to the side. Park it away from the other boat.
Travis: But I think it's daytime, right?
Matt: It is, yeah.
Travis: If we can see them, they can see us.
Taliesin: How far away is the other boat?
Matt: I'd say it's--
Taliesin: Is it possible they haven't seen us yet?
Matt: They're about maybe-- as you're breaking past the reef, they're a few miles away.
Taliesin: Would it be reasonable to think they've seen us by this point?
Matt: It's possible. If you can see them with your naked eye, there's a chance they've seen you, but you don't know. You have no way to confirm that.
Marisha: Does it look like they're coming or going from that island?
Matt: You just noticed them, you don't see any motion yet. You'd probably have to try and gauge it over a period of time.
Travis: I will try to increase our speed towards the island in the direction away from them and aim to get on the island, if we can.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: You are covering that. You've given that information to Orly and he's like, "All right. I'll keep to that way there." He begins to lead you in that direction, you move the ship that way. Keeping watch as you're shifting around. Are you going south or north side? You're heading south towards the island as you went through the reefs, so now you're on the northwestern side of the island.
Travis: It just depends on where the ship was, if it was directly ahead of us or towards the north or the south, we'd obviously go the opposite way.
Matt: Okay, it's a little bit north of where you're headed.
Travis: We're going to the southern tip.
Matt: You're cruising, and you're keeping an eye closely you watch as the ship was stationary begins to move in the direction you're traveling.
Sam: Oh no.
Travis: We're going to ground this ship. We're going straight into the beach and we're going to run our asses into the fucking jungle.
Sam: How will we get back?
Travis: I don't know. We're not there yet.
Sam: You are a terrible captain.
Travis: I throw Nott overboard. Full sail!
Matt: All right.
Travis: I grab her and bring her back. No, I'm just kidding.
Marisha: You know that video of the monkeys throwing the raccoon?
Travis: Oh yeah!
Marisha: That's what I imagined.
Matt: In pushing the ship ahead as fast as you can with the hole plugged, towards the south side of the island in the attempt to beach it, as you continue the ship is moving to head you off at the pass.
Travis: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Eventually you start getting a closer look at it, and it's a bigger ship than the one you have now. It's dual mast.
Travis: Yep. Does it have some trap doors on the side of the--?
Matt: Well, make a perception check. TRAVIS. Yeah. 16.
Matt: You look and you don't see any, and then you do because one of them opens. You watch as one of the gun ports (popping).
Taliesin: I'm going to raise the flag?
Travis: Yeah, why not.
Sam: What flag do we have?
Liam: The white flag.
Taliesin: The blue flag.
Travis: We've got the gray wave one.
Matt: Okay, as you get situated, you hear (cannon explosion) (water splashing), but a ways away.
Sam: It's a warning shot!
Matt: Yeah. It is a warning shot.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Sam: Raise the flag!
Taliesin: I rose it, it's been risen. It is risen.
Travis: I use Mask of Many Faces to make myself look like Captain Jawgrasp. You, lower the flag and-- hmm. Fuck, I don't know. Jesus Christ.
Taliesin: It's tough being the smart one, eh?
Liam: Yeah, no more Grog.
Taliesin: Be bold.
Travis: Yeah, fuck it, we're going to beach the ship. We're just going to keep driving towards the island.
Matt: You're going to keep going?!
Travis: Yep.
Liam: (excitedly) Yeah!
Travis: How far are we? That's another question.
Matt: Oh you're probably, at this point, about a mile and a half, two miles.
Travis: Oh no no, nevermind. No. We'll slow down the ship a little.
Matt: Yeah, it's quite a distance from the island, you notice it as you go to move. It's quite a ways.
Travis: Okay, yeah. We'll lower the flags, slow the ship.
Matt: Okay. You slow the ship-- do you come to a stop?
Travis: Mm-hmm.
Matt: All right. The ship, you bring it slowly down. Do you drop anchor?
Sam: Caleb? I want to talk about mutiny.
Matt: As you're watching off to the side, you can see all the gun ports are open now. But you see two smaller boats that are now coming towards you from the other ship. You can see two separate small crews that are rowing in your direction.
Travis: Cool. Let's lower the rope ladder over the side and welcome them aboard.
Taliesin: You could technically stand and offer, I might add. Since you can actually stand on water.
Travis: I can what?
Taliesin: You can stand on water right now..
Travis: Oh, I don't know if he did that, so let's not.
Matt: The other ship has maneuvered up to the point where it is now, its full starboard side is facing you, full gun ports open. You're in a bad position.
Travis: Yep!
Marisha: Is there anything in the sails? Any flags, iconography?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: My perception checks have been garbage. Six.
Matt: There is one sail that is currently partially unfurled. But from this distance it looks like it's facing away from you, from the direction you're looking, so you can't make out any details on it. But there is some sort of stitching in it.
Taliesin: We do have his flag up, though.
Matt: Yeah, you do have the ship's flag up above the Mistake. As these row boats steadily make there way towards your ship, the moment of possible parley approaching, we're going to end the episode there. We'll pick up there for our live show in New York next week.
Sam: Boats!
Liam: Boats in New York.
Marisha: Weren't we on boats for our first Gen Con liveshow?
Matt: No, you guys were in the Feywild. You fought a feymire crocodile there.
Liam: Just lost the southern tip.
Taliesin: Just the tip.
Sam: Oh boy, does that mean we all need to wear sailing clothing to our show in New York?
Matt: (laughs) You should, Sam.
Taliesin: Oh man.
Marisha: That's actually a good thing. We were trying to figure out what to wear!
Taliesin: We've been having that discussion about what to wear.
Marisha: We do the cast of South Pacific. Yeah!
Sam: Yes! Ooh! Could we all get sailor's costumes with the bell bottoms?
Marisha: Can the ladies be pirates?
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: It can't be hard--
Sam: Fleet week!
Matt: Careful, guys, you're making promises the internet live right now.
Laura: We'll figure something out.
Sam: Call a rental house.
Taliesin: I was going to say we could also get some blue bell bottoms and some Japanese school tops and fake it.
Marisha: I mean, I know you can two-day ship any type of--
Laura: Costume on Amazon.
Marisha: Yeah. Especially ones that look like for sex role play. You can get tons of those.
Taliesin: I don't know what video very specifically--
Liam: You heard it here. Next week in New York, live on stage.
Sam: Live sex. Live sailor sex!
Taliesin: It's the pilot--
Marisha: I was going to say, it was the high school pilot outfit.
Taliesin: I know exactly what you're talking about.
Liam: Your shipping dreams and your shipping dreams are coming true.
Matt: On that note, guys.
Sam: Thank you, Backblaze!
Matt: Thank you, Backblaze. Thank you, D&D Beyond. Thank you guys for coming along with us for a crazy nautical adventure this week.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: We love you, and in tougher times, we love you a lot. Have a wonderful week. We'll see you next Thursday, and is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everybody, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Before we hop into tonight's episode, let's get through some announcements very quickly. First and foremost, we have our fantastic returning sponsor, our friends since the beginning of Campaign 2, D&D Beyond. Sam!
Sam: D&D Beyond just released-- this is actually kind of exciting-- just released the new Creatures section. Users now have a place to add any type of monster stat block for easy reference during play! You can add your favorite wild shape or familiar forms, keep up with your ranger's companion, summoned creatures, mounts, ferrets-- or what do we have, a weasel?
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: Followers and more! You can also track hit points and customize the name and stats for all of your creatures! To celebrate, I've crafted a quick little trivia quiz for Laura! We'll start with Laura and bounce around. I searched through D&D Beyond's list of actual familiars listed on their site. I will name four creatures. One of these is actually a board game. The other three are actual D&D familiars. Which is the board game and not a familiar? A) Boggle, B) Juiblex, C) Pudding King, D) Unstable Unicorns.
Laura: Boggle!
Sam: Incorrect. I said, "Which is a board game and NOT a familiar?" Boggle is also a familiar! Unstable Unicorns is the correct answer.
Laura: It's stupid!
Sam: Taliesin, one of these is a West Hollywood bar--
Taliesin: Ready!
Sam: Three of these are D&D familiars. Which is the real bar? The Naughty Pig, the Mantrap, the Steel Predator, the Cockatrice.
Taliesin: Which of these is--
Sam: Is a real bar!
Taliesin: The Naughty Pig.
Sam: Correct!
Taliesin: I know my West Hollywood bars, man.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: Marisha, one of these is an Australian candy. The other are beasts on the list. Which is the real Australian candy? (Australian accent) A nalfeshnee? Musk stick?
Travis: All of Australia is turning off.
Sam: Ochre jelly? Vegepygmy?
Marisha: What was the last one?
Sam: Vegepygmy.
Travis: No, that's not a familiar.
Marisha: What's B?
Sam: Musk stick. You got it correct! It's actually a candy from Australia!
Travis: Vegepygmy is a familiar?
Matt: Vegepygmy is legit.
Sam: I'm going to skip the next one and go straight to Travis. Sorry, Liam, you lose. No, I'll do Liam's, too! One of these is a Kama Sutra position. The other three are beasts! Which is a Kama Sutra position? The Flying Snake, the Curled Flower--
Liam: The Cold Flower?
Sam: Curled Flower. The Stench Cow, or the Corpse Flower?
Liam: Which one is the--
Sam: Kama Sutra's sexy position.
Liam: Which one is?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: Run through those really fast.
Sam: Flying Snake! Curled Flower! Stench Cow! Corpse Flower!
Liam: Oh god, too fast.
Travis: You got it, pick one!
Liam: Corpse Flower. It's the only thing I can remember. He said it too fast!
Sam: Curled Flower is-- Speed round! I'm still going! Travis, I'm going to say pairs of names. One of each is a World Wrestling Entertainment wrestler, the other is a D&D familiar. Grung or Mojo Rawley? Say the one that's the wrestler. Grung or Mojo Rawley?
Travis: Grung.
Sam: No. Manshoon or Fandango?
Travis: Manshoon!
Sam: No. Leucrotta or Lou Albano?
Travis: Lou Albano.
Sam: Correct. Annis hag or Gran Metalik?
Travis: Gran Metalik.
Sam: Correct, and one more  Giff or Mirt? They're both beasts!
Matt: I don't think Mirt would appreciate being called a beast.
Sam: I don't know what any of these things are!
Matt: But a familiar, perhaps. Thank you, Sam, and thank you, D&D Beyond.
Sam: I did a lot of research on D&D Beyond today. It was fascinating to scroll through the list of beasts and familiars!
Taliesin: I'm especially impressed you found the list of West Hollywood bars on D&D Beyond. That's an obscure crowd.
Matt: It's amazing the reach the program has now. Thank you, D&D Beyond, for your sponsorship. Gotta catch 'em all. A couple of other updates: the latest episode of Between the Sheets starring our fantastic Liam O'Brien right here is now available on the Critical Role YouTube. That's youtube.com/criticalrole.
Matt: Make sure to check out this coming Monday on our Twitch channel, twitch.tv/criticalrole, at 7:00pm Pacific to see the next episode of Between the Sheets with our fantastic Sam Riegel.
Sam: I'm on this show?
Matt: You're up the next week, yeah, get ready.
Sam: Did they pay me?
Matt: That would be a conversation to have with the Creative Director.
Sam: Brian has to pay me to be anywhere within 500 feet of him. It's the rule.
Matt: I think legally you're not supposed to be? Check that out on Monday, 7:00pm Pacific on our Twitch channel, and the next episode of All Work No Play airs tomorrow, also at twitch.tv/criticalrole, at 7:00pm Pacific time. You get to watch these two awesome gentlemen here, as well as the special guest, Stephanie Sheh.
Sam: We're doing the rage room tomorrow.
All: Rage room!
Sam: It's going to be fun.
Liam: Got almost all of it out.
Matt: (slow motion talking)
Travis: Benadryl.
Matt: So there's that. Anybody else have any other announcements?
Laura: The pre-orders for the Keyfish t-shirt start shipping tomorrow. Outside of that, just go to the shop. Y'all know the drill.
Marisha: It's fine, we're gods!
Matt: All right then. Without further ado, I say it's time we go ahead and dial in for tonight's episode of Critical Role. [TV static, click] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Matt: And welcome back.
Taliesin: Never an accident.
Matt: No, never! Last we left off  The Mighty Nein, following their thread of information, in pursuit of the source of the strange sphere that Fjord had come into the possession of-- that seemed to tie in some way, shape or form to the magical powers he had been slowly learning to control and manifest-- led you to southward to the Menagerie Coast where you commandeered a ship named the Mist, which you then renamed the Mistake, hired a crew and made your way south-southeast towards the island of Urukaxl to follow the apparent source of this note that seemed to have some information about where it was from and where it may go. Upon approaching, you were greeted by a much larger ship, which had shot a warning shot across the bow and demanded you to come meet the captain on their deck. You there met Captain Avantika, who had given you the options of either proving yourselves beneath her and her crew by helping them, putting yourself in danger at her behest, or they would weigh your corpses down with rocks within the nearby bay amongst the reefs. You agreed to give into these demands and an evening's stay within the ship known as the Squalleater. A little bit of thievery went into the cargo hold of the ship while Fjord had been called to the captain's quarters, where the two of you discovered that you had something in common. You both appeared to have been, from her words, the chosen of Uk'otoa, an ancient entity referred to as the leviathan that was a historical creation of Zehir, the Cloaked Serpent, before it was banished along with the rest of the gods in the Calamity and following Divergence. Now the captain, seeing herself as the chosen and seeing you in a similar state -- this kismet was grappled onto quite strongly by her-- sent you to bed with the excitement of this travel, of which you would embark upon in the next day.
Matt: Upon waking, you found that Jamedi, a hired adventurer and dungeoneer who was set out to scope the island and find this temple, this supposed structure that was built in honor of Uk'otoa long ago and had since been retaken by followers of the Cloaked Serpent. Jamedi returned, finding the rest of the path too dangerous, but had managed to locate the whereabouts of this temple. Now you've gathered your things, you left the Squalleater onto a couple of skiffs, rowed yourself onto the white beach shores of Urukaxl, and as you all step across the long beach towards the line of trees that makes the jungle, you make your way into this mysterious wooded area. Mighty Nein, welcome to the jungle.
Travis: (singing) Welcome to the jungle!
Matt: (singing) You're gonna die! (spoken) As Jamedi begins pushing forward into this, I would like to, one, have a marching order.
Laura: That fast, huh?
Matt: I mean, you guys are going into dangerous territory.
Travis: I'll be up front.
Sam: Yasha's first. We're all 60 feet behind her.
Matt: Fjord's up front.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: I'll be behind him.
Matt: Avantika's going to ride up with Fjord.
Marisha: I'll be behind Jester.
Matt: Jamedi's going to be scouting a little bit ahead. Nott, where are you?
Sam: I guess I'll scout with Jamedi.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: Yeah!
Marisha: I'll be behind Jester, yeah, or with Jester.
Matt: Yasha will hold up the rear from a defensive standpoint. Caduceus, Caleb?
Taliesin: I'll be toward the back, I guess.
Liam: I will walk behind Beauregard.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Also, question  What is the temperature like here on this island? Are we tropical at this point?
Matt: You are very much in tropical weather. It is warm, it is humid, and, even within maybe ten minutes of walking into the jungle, you can feel the sweat beginning to gather at the edges of your hair and the back of your coat.
Liam: Caleb would then have taken his coat off and twisted it up and tied it to the back of his coat, so he's just with the holstered books and his shirt sleeves rolled up at this point since it's so hot.
Matt: So you're leaving the coat behind?
Liam: No, I just tied it onto the back of my pack.
Matt: Ok, gotcha. Cool.
Liam: Rolled it up like a carpet.
Matt: You begin to step through the soft floor of the island jungle, each footstep coming with a sort of spongy pressure before it hits hard earth, rock, or just compressed compost and soft vegetation. I need you all to roll a stealth check as a group as you press forward.
Laura: Can I cast Pass Without a Trace so everyone around me gets plus ten?
Taliesin: Yeah, might be a good idea.
Travis: She's nice in the middle for a good spread.
Sam: May I put up my cloaky thing?
Matt: Of course.
Taliesin: I'm also going to--
Marisha: (sneezes)
All: Bless you!
Travis: First roll with the new CR die!
Liam: Gesundheit.
Taliesin: I'm going to politely ask the local greenery and let them know that we're going to be coming through and that we're going to try not to disturb them so long as nothing disturbs us.
Sam: Did you cast Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yes, I did!
Travis: Do you do that out loud?
Taliesin: Yeah, have to.
Travis: The local greenery?
Taliesin: Well, I mean, I got to talk to a couple of trees and let them know that we're coming through.
Laura: I'm going to give the Blessing of the Trickster to Fjord.
Travis: I don't need it, but okay.
Taliesin: Thank god for that plus ten because that was terrible.
Matt: Avantika and Jamedi. Got it. All right, Caduceus.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Good.
Laura: 32.
Sam: We're all within the--
Matt: 30-foot radius, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, 24.
Liam: 26.
Marisha: 29.
Travis: 25.
Matt: I'll roll for Yasha as well. Natural 18, all right. You guys ever so quietly disappear into the jungle brush without issue. The hanging vines and heavy palm fronds around you heavily obscuring your procession deeper into this--
Travis: Caduceus, can I ask you  what do you hear when you converse?
Taliesin: Shh.
Travis: (whispering) Yeah, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: If you want to hear it, you have to listen for it. You hear that?
Travis: No.
Taliesin: What're you hearing, then?
Travis: Nothing.
Taliesin: Exactly, yeah. It's good. All right.
Liam: (whispering) They're not saying anything.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: Continuing onward. Who's keeping watch on this?
Sam: Me, and--
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye out.
Sam: Who am I out there with? Cosko?
Matt: Jamedi.
Taliesin: Oh, and Frumpkin.
Travis: Yeah, and Caduceus please.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye around as well.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll perception for your vicinity. You guys are rolling perception for the path ahead of you.
Sam: Three.
Travis: What the fuck? Plus?
Sam: Plus zero.
Travis: Why are you rolling perception checks?
Sam: I'm in the front. Makes sense!
Marisha: Did you get a haircut?
Sam: No, I just styled it a little bit differently.
Marisha: It looks good!
Sam: Oh, that's nice!
Taliesin: It might have been the loss of your Samson-like powers.
Matt: So anyway. Bring it in. Pushing forward, you look ahead and it's just endless trees and hanging vines and heavy roots in the ground. You feel nice and confident in the fact that nothing is catching your attention. A hand touches your shoulder and turns you to the right. It's Jamedi, who goes, "Shh. Look at this here. This was the first on my--" He pulls a small piece of paper and is taking notes. "I have not looked further within, but this was the first marker to our entry inside." As he points over to show you, about a hundred or so feet off, partially obscured by one of the nearby heavy fronds, a dilapidated driftwood shack, with a frond-thatched roof. He looks back to the rest of you as you begin to approach. "This is the first marker. Do you have a need to stop or do we press on?"
Sam: You've been past here before?
Matt: "I've walked through but did not stop. I do not know if it is safe or not."
Sam: Maybe we should go investigate just in case there's an early warning system or something, and there's someone in there watching us?
Travis: Yeah. Caduceus, Nott, want to check it out?
Sam: Us?!
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Such a good idea.
Taliesin: That is a really good idea.
Sam: All right. I'll take a big swig and go towards it.
Matt: Okay. Jamedi begins to move, and Avantika puts her hand out and stops Jamedi, and goes, "Terribly sorry, but you are more important on this. You two, you can do this without him?"
Sam: Yes we can, Captain.
Matt: "Very well. We await your return."
Sam: We're supposed to be listening to her, or something. I don't know.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: The two of you tread on. As you approach, you get a good look at it. It looks like this hut has been untouched in a long while. A lot of the overgrowth in the jungle has reclaimed the base of the wood. A lot of it appears to be driftwood, or ramshackle planks that have been carved from trees that have fallen over in the vicinity, or possibly scavenged from shipwrecks that have washed ashore. It is a mismatch of different types of wood and cobbled materials, but it is a shack. It's probably no more than ten-foot by ten-foot, it's not extremely large. You do see a half-rotted sheet of some sort of thick material that blocks the doorway. You see some holes that have been eaten through it.
Sam: Want me to go knock, or you?
Taliesin: Well, we have a choice here. You're harder to see, I suppose, so there's that.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: I'll come up with you, though.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to sneak up and peak through the curtain.
Matt: Okay. You get to the curtain and the material is a thick-- you can see that it probably once belonged to a sail or of a heavy tarp that's long rotted and mildewed, and as you put your hand to it and tug on it, elements of the threads separate a little bit. Peering inside, you see it's mostly empty. There's a simple cot, there's a chair, a mildewed leather coat that appears to be half folded over and thrown in the corner, and a small box up on the far end of the table in the room that's just open; there's no lid to it. The whole room smells faintly of rot.
Marisha: (pigeon cooing)
Travis: (pigeon cooing)
Laura: (pigeon cooing)
Matt: Shh.
Taliesin: I'm going to poke up and put my head in as well. There's no trap doors? Nowhere where anybody could be hiding?
Sam: I can look for traps.
Matt: You can make an investigation check if you want to go check the interior.
Taliesin: I was just curious immediately if there was anything I notice; I wasn't going to--
Sam: I'll look around for traps on the floor and stuff.
Taliesin: I was going to look around. Actually, if you're doing that, I'll look around the outside to see if anybody's watching us.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Sam: Investigation?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: 13.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: Glancing around the space, you see half of your party hiding, mostly, not too far off, maybe a hundred feet from the edge. Looking around you, you notice there are a few animals that are up in the top of the trees, leaping. Looks to be some sort of monkey-type creature, small, leaping from branch to branch. You see a few colorful jungle birds that are up in the higher elements of the tree tops. At the moment, no noticeable dangerous figures that could be lurking nearby.
Taliesin: Nothing's really watching.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Looking about, touching the floor, you don't notice any trap doors. You find one plank that feels loose. You pull it up, and it's just dirt. Yeah, it's just the table, the cot, the open box.
Sam: Then I'll use Mage Hand to reach up for that box and grab it off the shelf.
Matt: Okay. You pull the box off the shelf and pull it over. It has a bunch of old, dry-rotted navigation tools. You can see a wooden handled magnifying glass. You can see a piece that held an instrument that was used for charting paths along maps, but the wooden elements of these have warped over time and dried out and there are metallic bits are rusted a bit.
Sam: Does the magnifying glass look like it might still work, maybe?
Matt: It could still work. The glass hasn't been touched; the housing for it has rusted a little.
Sam: I'll grab that. Mr. Clay, should we go in further, or what do you think?
Taliesin: I don't know. Has the bed been slept in? Does it seem like someone's been here recently or is this abandoned, do you think?
Sam: Why don't you go check it out?
Taliesin: What? Oh! Well, I'll put my head in.
Matt: Roll an investigation check as you inspect the bed.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Looking at the cot, it's a simp--
Taliesin: 12, sorry.
Matt: 12. Okay.
Sam: You don't see the cot.
Matt: It's a simple cot. It looks like the material bows in the middle where somebody would've slept previously. It's stained from weather over time. Looking up at the thatched roof, it looks like there's probably been a few storms that have battered it enough to the point where it leaks through, and the place itself doesn't really keep any of the rain at bay, what manages to filter down through the treetops nearby, at least. As you push on it, the material tears a bit, and beneath it you see a smaller chest of some kind.
Taliesin: Huh.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: Does look dangerous to you?
Sam: The chest?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: I can come see if it's trappied.
Taliesin: Sure. I'm going to take a step back.
Sam: I'll Mage Hand check for traps.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Wow, so far today, I've rolled two threes and three fours.
Matt: Buddy!
Laura: Switch that fucking dice out!
Sam: No, it's going to pay off.
Travis: Just think, slot machine!
Sam: 13.
Matt: The chest is locked; it does not appear to be trapped.
Sam: Okay. I'll open it. It's not trapped, for sure.
Taliesin: Be my guest.
Sam: Well, that's better. 24 total.
Matt: There you go!
Travis: Ding ding ding ding!
Taliesin: Cherry, cherry, cherry.
Marisha: Jackpot.
Matt: You go ahead. It opens up; nothing seems to happen. It's relatively small; it's maybe six by four inches in size. You slowly pull it open, moving the cot out of the way. Looking inside, immediately you see a small, golden statue, maybe three inches tall, that is a relatively simple carving; it's not extremely detailed. The relief looks like the head of a cobra with the hood open and the jaw open with fangs drawn. Next to that you see three approximately gold piece-sized rubies. They're that big around, but they're fairly thin.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: I'll grab them all!
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Ruby buttons!
Matt: You pull them out. As you do, the weight that's been distributed outside of the chest causes it to slide forward. At that point, you notice that there is a cord attached to the base of the chest. The weight was holding it in place. As you remove the objects, the chest slides back against the wall as whatever cable is attached to it goes through a loop through the ceiling and you feel shifting as a large urn of some kind that is currently set up inside a thatch roof tips over, and begins to just release a payload on top of both of you--
Sam: Maybe it's just a silly prank, it's water.
Matt: It looks to be a cluster of poisonous snakes, dozens of them just stumble down from above. What do you guys do?
Sam: What do we do?
Laura: Leap out of the way!
Sam: I mean, yeah, I guess I will try to not get hit by the cluster of snakes.
Matt: Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: You got any of that rogue shit?
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Save?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: (hissing) Save friends!
Sam: 23 to save.
Matt: You duck out of the way to the back, get your crossbow ready, and look down. The snakes hit the ground with a sludgy slap. All of these snakes have long been dead, mostly decomposed.
Sam: They didn't feed the trap snakes?
Matt: Apparently whoever was been handling this hut hasn't been here for a while.
Laura: Aw, that's sad.
Taliesin: Well, that's just sad, that's, yeah.
Sam: Do you want them to decompose?
Taliesin: I mean, that'd be nice, wouldn't it?
Sam: Maybe?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll see if I can start the muck going in here and maybe get a nice little indoor terrarium, I don't know what will happen.
Matt: Sure, they're still mostly decomposed. But the weather, at least the way it was kept up in there, wasn't conducive to any heavy jungle fungus, it seems. But you harry that along. You, through your cantrip, manage to watch as these dull blue and gray spores begin to apparate in a row across the pile of somewhat sludgy snake remains.
Taliesin: That's already better.
Sam: Were they real rubies or was it all a ruse to get me to pull on them?
Matt: They appear to be.
Sam: Do I have them?
Matt: You have them. You have everything that's in the chest, you have the gold idol, the small snake head idol, and you have these three gold piece-shaped rubies. They're about that thick, and that big around. Make an investigation check.
Sam: Me?
Matt: Yes. It would be perception, actually.
Sam: 12
Matt: You look at the rubies as you're inspecting them and they have little scratches at the edges, it's like slight-- I wouldn't say imperfections, it's not like they were originally there. But you can see small grooves or lines along the outer edge where something metal or pointy was used to scrape or picked.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: This is good. This is some Uncharted shit right now.
Taliesin: There are some maps in with the compass-- just some tools? All right.
Matt: Nothing else. Just a few things left behind, and no sign of who once built or at least lived in this space nearby. But they haven't been here for a while, whoever they were.
Sam: Let's go tell the others about everything that we found, except for all the rubies and gold. I'm kidding, we'll tell them about it.
Taliesin: All right, I-- you know, okay, sure. We can do that.
Sam: Unless you're cool with not telling them, because that's cool with me, too.
Taliesin: Telling who what?
Sam: All right, you're confusing.
Laura: What did you find, what did you find?
Sam: I found those beautiful eyes of yours. I can't-- I found two rubies.
Laura: Two whole rubies?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Whoa, what did they look like?
Sam: Like this.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: It'd look even better with the golden snake thing. I mean the whole thing comes together nicely.
Travis: What golden snake?
Sam: Oh, there's a golden snake, I forgot.
Laura: Ooh!
Travis: Is it just a cobra head by itself, or is there also a body?
Matt: No, it's just a head, about an inch below where the jaw opens. It's about three inches tall altogether.
Laura: Is it like our little mini Yasha bust?
Matt: Kind of, yeah! Only with no torso. It's just like a snake head that's curled up, and it's only from about there to where the mouth is.
Laura: I try to feed the ruby to the snake head.
Liam: May I have a look at this one? Not the rubies.
Laura: Do I see anything cool about the rubies? Do I also see the little (scratching)?
Matt: You do also notice the small scrapes, yes.
Liam: Are there any runes on this thing, does it seem arcane in nature?
Matt: It does not appear to have any runes inscripted on it. There's no language carved or pressed into the mold. It looks to be like it was sculpted not by a master artist or sculptor. Some of the details are a little loose and bleed a bit: where the mouth and the teeth are some of them are a little bent or off-kilter. It looks like it was more of a passion project than a fine piece of craftsmanship.
Liam: Yeah, how does everyone feel about a ten-minute breather here? I sit down and unholster my book and begin to cast Identify as a ritual.
Marisha: Hey, can you do that on multiple things at a time?
Liam: No. One at a time.
Marisha: That seems excessive.
Sam: What do you have that you want to identify?
Liam: Do you have a quicker way?
Marisha: Just a thing that was given to me.
Laura: What thing was given to you?
Marisha: A feather from Nila, forever ago.
Liam: It's only ten minutes.
Sam: You don't trust her?
Laura: Who's Nila?
Marisha: I don't know, I'm just saying it might be magical.
Taliesin: Magic feather.
Marisha: Magic feather. Maybe it makes me fly.
Taliesin: Maybe it makes you fly, maybe it makes you molt. There's all sorts of things feathers could do.
Marisha: Oh that's right, you didn't meet Nila.
Laura: Nuh-uh.
Marisha: Yeah, she looked like Caduceus.
Taliesin: She was really nice.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: We didn't look anything alike, but yeah she was very nice.
Marisha: Oh sorry.
Taliesin: I'm much taller.
Travis: Yeah, we can take ten minutes, we'll set out a little perimeter just to make sure we deflect any unwanted--
Laura: I mean if Avantika thinks it's okay. Does Captain Avantika think it's okay for us to take ten minutes?
Matt: Captain Avantika crosses her arms and impatiently goes "Whatever it takes if you think it will give us there safer. I trust you and your specialties."
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Hey is there any benefit to showing-- I whisper-- is there any benefit to showing Captain Avantika that letter we found that she wrote?
Laura: Hmm, we should ask Fjord before we do that.
Sam: All right. What's Fjord doing right now? (laughter)
Sam: (yelling) Hey Fjord!
Travis: Huh?
Sam: (yelling) Fjord! (spoken) I whisper. (laughter)
Sam: Is there any benefit to showing Captain Avantika the letter that I think she wrote?
Travis: Why would we do that?
Sam: I don't know. That's why I'm asking. I'm a simple goblin. I don't know the world weary ways of a sailor.
Travis: You certainly could. I don't see what harm it could bring.
Laura: I'm still picturing you in the stripy sailor outfit.
Travis: Sure, go for it.
Sam: No, I'll just hang on to it. If she ever is like, I don't know. If we ever need it, we got it!
Marisha: I walk over. Hey, are we whispering?
Laura: Shh. We're whispering.
Marisha: Oh sorry. Sorry, we're whispering.
Sam: Never mind, we were just talking about this letter, but don't show Avantika. We can use it to copy her handwriting and write a check.
Marisha: You never show people their stolen mail.
Sam: Oh, of course, I should have asked you first!
Marisha: Don't. Absolutely not. Keep that shit on lock.
Travis: He's rolling dice, you guys. Is the shack large enough to house our entire?
Matt: Not comfortably, by any means.
Travis: We'll kind of--
Laura: We'll be quiet, we'll just stay still and look around.
Matt: In this ten minutes, the blanketed heat and humidity this jungle tends to hold in is uncomfortable for those of you more used to the northern elements of this continent.
Liam: Yeah, this sucks.
Matt: The sweat is definitely collecting beneath all of your armor and clothing, pooling in areas you hadn't expected. Your hair is matted against your face, the insects are starting to find their way to you as the scent of sweaty humanoid draws them nearby, occasionally being bit here and there. You finish casting Identify. This is not magical, it doesn't have any magical properties. It seems to be just an idol, it looks like it was attached to something in the past, but it's probably literally worth its weight in gold.
Liam: Nott, here's your toy back.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: I have a question for you, Matt. Is it really just us and Avantika and Jamedi?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: And that's it?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I scan the forest. Are we being followed?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Fuck, balls, shit, six.
Matt: Looks clear.
Marisha: So foggy.
Travis: Yeah, that's the humidity. I walk over to Avantika and say: Might I ask, you said your men are dedicated to this cause as well. How much do you share with them?
Matt: "I share what is needed. I share with them the elements of the dreams and visions I've been given. For me it is one thing to have a loyal crew; it is another to have a crew that has faith in you beyond being just captain. I do not want a mutiny, and what's more effective than someone that thinks that not only are you a proper captain, but you are the link to their god?"
Travis: Very effective.
Matt: "There are ranging levels of belief, maybe, but I think with the time we spend together and the willingness to understand the possibilities of having a captain with such capabilities at their disposal, that-- well, riches are not that far off on the horizon, eh?"
Travis: Blind belief is quite remarkable. I'm assuming you've shown them things to garner some level of expectation of your abilities?
Matt: "Oh, do not misunderstand, I myself have gutted and cut down dozens of men who have attempted to take my position."
Travis: I don't doubt it for a moment.
Matt: "Speaking of which," and she removes her dagger and rapier and looks about and you can see beautiful weapons, very well made and very well kept. In fact, most of her equipment that she has, you can see her fiddling with occasionally to adjust and clean things as she moves through. There's a very forceful intent to make sure everything is properly placed and well taken care of on her person. She looks about and goes, "And as much as we are keeping an eye on us ahead, I am still keeping and eye on all of you, of course."
Travis: I would expect nothing less.
Matt: "Because, while I would like to believe this new-found kinship could make for some very incredible possibilities in the future, you cross me and this blade will find your heart faster than anything you've seen move."
Travis: Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
Matt: "I hope not either." She reaches out and pokes your nose and turns around.
Marisha: She booped you. Nope.
Travis: She just gets a finger full of sweat.
Liam: Was all of that for all to hear or are they off a bit?
Matt: They were off a bit, away from everybody.
Travis: Are we satisfied?
Sam: Let's go, let's keep going. Oh, what?
Liam: Yeah, I'm good. Break time over.
Travis: All right.
Matt: "All right. Jamedi?" "Of course." They begin falling into the same positions, with both Jamedi and Nott taking point. Everybody make another stealth check, please.
Marisha: Another stealth check.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace still going? It goes for how long?
Matt: It lasts for an hour.
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Matt: So yeah, it's still going for a bit.
Laura: Oh, Blessing, who needs a Blessing?
Marisha: (pigeon cooing)
Matt: Technically it's still on Fjord.
Travis: I'll take it. Is that advantage? Better. 21.
Matt: 21? Okay.
Marisha: 19.
Liam: 29.
Sam: 29.
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Okay. All doing pretty damn well. Continuing to coast forward for the next hour, hour and a half or so, following Jamedi's path. You can see him pulling out notes here and there and looking for different things, and occasionally he'll come upon a heavy palm tree or jungle tree that he's marked with a blade and he's keeping tabs on his marks to follow his path back to where he originally found his way. Along the way, the insects are getting really obnoxious. The buzzing itself becoming this low, droning, ever-present hum, but the bites are getting extremely obnoxious. Jamedi acknowledging, once he starts seeing it more and more, goes, "I did not find them a problem before. Perhaps they seem to enjoy your flavors more than mine."
Marisha: Ew.
Laura: I'm really tasty
Travis: And sweet.
Taliesin: Are the insects really not bothering him at all?
Matt: They're not bothering him really, it seems.
Taliesin: Just out of idle curiosity--
Sam: Is he a human?
Matt: He's human.
Taliesin: I'm going to very quickly cast Eyes of the Grave.
Travis: Of the what?
Taliesin: Anything undead within 60 feet is going to glow and I'm going to get a little glow off anything that registers as undead.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What the fuck?
Sam: Beauregard starts glowing.
Matt: You--
Marisha: Twist!
Matt: You get a very faint undead aura emanating from Jamedi. (gasping)
Travis: You slick motherfucker.
Marisha: Still a twist!
Travis: Really? Out of the fucking blue.
Laura: He's good.
Sam: Do you share this knowledge with anyone?
Taliesin: At some point when I can get to Fjord quietly, at some point.
Matt: All right. Well, first off, I need everyone to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Why? Because it's so hot?
Matt: Just make one.
Travis: Just make one.
Marisha: Jeez, that was so close.
Travis: 20.
Marisha: Nine.
Travis: Nein!
Laura: Nein!
Laura: Is that back?
Liam: Natural 20.
Sam: Natural 12.
Laura: 12.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty! Not bad. Good spread, guys. Continuing to press on.
Travis: Somebody cast something, right? Does that mean somebody cast something?
Laura: Yeah, it's Jamedi.
Marisha: Is it just so hot? What's happening? Is it bugs?
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl up to Fjord in the line at some point. Been keeping my eye out, getting the lay of the land and Jamedi is not quite alive.
Travis: I'm sorry, did you say not quite--
Taliesin: It's not quite alive.
Marisha: Am I close enough to where I can overhear this?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I don't think it's an appropriate moment to bring something like that up, but it's worth--
Travis: Do you detect anything sinister?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's not quite alive.
Travis: Yeah, that's inherent, sure. Right.
Taliesin: If anything, I feel like I'm exercising an enormous amount of willpower just not to-- I mean, just doesn't seem like we're in-- there's a good advantage to dealing with this now. But, yeah, there's something weird there.
Travis: Thank you for letting me know. I hope you'll keep an eye on it for us.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm keeping an eye on it. Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Liam: I would also say, as we're tromping through, that I would push forward and try to catch up with Jamedi, momentarily. Oh jeez, what is that?
Marisha: Sorry.
Liam: Excuse me, two questions for you.
Matt: Looks over his shoulder at you.
Liam: What's that? How much further? A day's travel or more than one day until we reach our destination?
Matt: "With a full group like this, and trying to be as quiet as possible. I give us about maybe one day. There will be a night of camping along the way."
Liam: And did you encounter any kind of threats?
Matt: "There are dangerous things in this jungle, but it is easy to keep out of sight as one man. This many? Well, not as much."
Liam: Anything specific that we should be on guard for or prepared for?
Matt: "There are lizardfolk that exist on the outskirts of this island."
Liam: You mentioned that.
Matt: "They call the rivers, streams and the inlets home. Then there are the people of scale and fang, the snake-folk that exist further in near this temple. Variations of their strange physical--" What are you guys doing over there?
Sam: Trying to open candy.
Matt: How about we hold off? Congratulations.
Taliesin: That was sort of my fault. I apologize.
Matt: "The people that have built around this temple, their variations in how their worship-- the boons of this long-gone snake god they worship seems to apparate on their person in different ways. I've seen some with heads that are full of serpent features, patches of scales, yellow eyes, as well as some with limbs themselves transformed into snake-like forms. It is stuff of nightmares."
Laura: Like their arms but their legs are just--
Liam: You avoided them, you did not tangle with them yourself.
Matt: "No, that is not the work I do. I am not a fighter by any means. My job is to not be seen, to infiltrate, recover, and expedite my exit."
Liam: Makes sense. I cast Mage Armor right in front of him on myself. Thank you. See you later. I'm going back to my earlier position.
Matt: All right. Continuing forward for the next few hours or so, the heat is getting heavier and heavier as the afternoon sky now greets you. You find yourself stopping to eat and drink water along the way with what supplies you have available to you. The next few hours or so as it begins to get darker and darker--
Laura: I have a question.
Matt: Yes?
Laura: With my medicine stuff, would I know anything that would help get rid of bugs and stuff? That would keep bugs away from me?
Matt: It's possible. Make a nature check.
Laura: Oh no, a natural one.
Matt: You have no clue.
Taliesin: Bugs! How do they work?
Matt: Not a whole lot of jungle insects in or around Nicodranas, unfortunately. Nothing catches your attention necessarily.
Liam: You said it's also darker now? As I chew on some liquorice root.
Matt: Yes, it's getting steadily darker as you guys move your way through.
Sam: Were there any flowers on our journey?
Matt: Were there any what?
Sam: Flowers. Did we pass any flowers?
Matt: There are a number of jungle flowers that you pass.
Sam: I'm going to pick some as we go.
Matt: Sure, all right. Most of the ones you come across are like a dull pink in color that fade to a green at the base. It's not a vibrant pink, just enough of that whitish red crossover to appear. A lot of them grow along the base of the roots of some of these jungle trees and you collect a few handfuls of them. Okay. Yes?
Marisha: I go over to Fjord while we're taking a break. Hey, did you find anything out from Avantika? About, you know, shit that you guys have in common?
Travis: No, I asked if she shared with her men her passions and all the details that she knows and all the knowledge. I thought maybe she might covet that, but it seems like she's quite forthcoming. She's trying to build a following, like a zealot almost. You know, build believers out of her crew.
Marisha: Does she believe it, though?
Travis: Yeah. She's convincing if she's a liar. I think she genuinely wants to summon forth this thing.
Marisha: But does she believe that she's a zealot, like connected to some god.
Travis: That she's the chosen? Yeah.
Marisha: How are you feeling from last night? Seemed like you had a rough night.
Travis: No, I'm fine. Fine. Rested. REM sleep is some of the best, so you know. I feel energized. Jazzed. Excited to continue on.
Marisha: All right. Did you ever read any horror stories as a kid or did you and your friends tell horror stories? Spooky things?
Travis: Ghost stories? Yeah.
Marisha: You know how there's always a time where the narrator stops, lets your imagination run wild with what happens?
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: I just wanted to say. People might have ideas and thoughts, and I'm trying to look out for you because we said we'd have each other's backs. Sometimes the less you say, the more people's minds like to fill in the blanks. From what I've learned, generally, what's in people's heads is worse than the reality of the situation.
Travis: Wow. Do you want to tell me what's in people's heads?
Marisha: I mean, look, we've seen you do some weird, fucked up shit, right?
Travis: Admittedly.
Marisha: So any time you're unsure it's going to make other people even more unsure, with a layer of suspicion. It's like a tiramisu of confusion.
Travis: Well, I admit that I'm not sure about a lot of this. No pressure, right?
Marisha: No pressure.
Travis: I will try to fill in as many details as I can.
Marisha: Let's go fight some snake people.
Travis: Totes.
Marisha: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: While that is going on, I walk over and stand next to Caduceus and say: Hey. Hello, would you hang out with me for a moment?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Excellent, let's stand right here. I casually pull out the wire and I cast Message to Nott. Nott, would you please go, I need you to speak to Avantika and Jamedi together for a moment, please?
Sam: You need me to speak to Avantika and Jamedi?
Laura: What are you saying?
Sam: Sorry, what?
Laura: Are you talking to yourself?
Sam: Oh. (whispering) I'm on the phone.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Ja.
Sam: Recast. What do you need me to say? You can respond to this message.
Liam: Just distract them, please.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: What did he say?
Sam: Got it.
Laura: What is it? What did he say?
Sam: (whispering) I'm on the phone right now, okay? I'll get to you when I'm done.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: (normal volume) Okay. That was Caleb. He wants me to go distract Avantika and Jumanji for a moment. Do you want to come help me?
Laura: Okay!
Sam: What should we do?
Laura: Should we do a dance?
Sam: We've practiced one.
Laura: I mean, we did a really good one before. So yeah. We could do that for them.
Sam: We could try to teach it to them.
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: Great. Ahem. Hoy hoy! Hi, Captain Avantika.
Laura: And Jamedi.
Matt: Jamedi's a few feet ahead. He's currently leading the path. They're about 20 feet from each other.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Laura: I'll get Jamedi.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Hey, Jamedi!
Matt: Jamedi is like, "What?"
Laura: Can you come here for a second? I have something I need to show you.
Matt: "What is this? This has no bearing on--"
Laura: It's really important, though. It's super important.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Ooh! 22.
Matt: He goes, (sigh) "What is it?"
Laura: Come here, come here!
Sam: Hi!
Travis: You can see the temperature rising.
Matt: (sigh) He begins to walk over in your direction.
Laura: Okay, now that we have you two together.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Avantika' still ten feet from you, but is like, "What is it you want?"
Laura: Okay, we'll do this very quietly.
Sam: Something that-- Hi, it's me, Gilligan. Nice to see you again. Something that we used to do on our ship to relieve the tension.
Laura: And raise morale.
Sam: And raise morale.
Sam: Was we had a boat dance.
Laura: Yes, and it was specific when we were on really important missions and stuff.
Sam: Do you guys have one of those?
Matt: "Not specific to the dance, no. Not to the boat, at the very least."
Laura: Well, so you have dances, though? Did you do to raise morale? Do you and Jamedi do one together?
Matt: Jamedi goes, "This is completely inconsequential to me and I need to keep an eye on the path ahead."
Liam: After a moment passes, I stand behind Caduceus' tall frame and quietly cast Detect Magic.
Matt: Okay. So, you cast Detect Magic. As your visual aura expands beyond, giving you faint bits of essence of magic around you. All of your friends that have various magical accoutrements themselves, begin to glow on their persons and around their persons. You can see that Avantika, both blades that are currently sheathed give off a faint aura. That seems to be all that you can notice at the moment.
Liam: Even for Jamedi?
Matt: Jamedi, you do not see--
Liam: Oh, I need to walk up and learn more about this dance, then.
Taliesin: Wait, I'm going to stop you because I see what you're doing. You're probably not going to get anything off him, but he's got an undead vibe that I've been picking up.
Liam: Oh. Ja verstehen, okay.
Taliesin: I feel you. It's been making me pretty creeped out, to be honest, but I'm trying to hold together and keep chill. Chill. Lots of chill. It's hot, but--
Liam: I still want to see what he's carrying.
Taliesin: You're really going-- Let me know what you see and we'll compare notes later.
Liam: What are you two doing over here? You're holding up. We need to move.
Matt: Jamedi's already moving, by the way, he's ignored both of you and has continued up with the path.
Liam: I try to catch up to him!
Laura: Oh. We're just showing the dance, is all.
Sam: Oh, sorry.
Liam: I pass them by. Try to catch up.
Matt: Okay. As you catch up, the next thing you see as you turn back is Jamedi, hand up behind in your direction.
Travis: Shh!
Sam: He's a ninja.
Matt: As you all begin to listen, Beauregard, Caleb, and Caduceus, you hear the cracking of branches and twigs and the shifting of jungle floor. Jamedi puts two fingers in the air and then--
Laura: What does that mean? What does two mean?
Travis: Two people go up.
Liam: I creep up to just about 30 feet away.
Sam: Don't! Not you.
Marisha: I agree. And I walk up.
Matt: Okay, so Beauregard and Caleb approach.
Marisha: No, why are you following me? Why are you doing this?
Matt: "Shh!" you hear coming from Jamedi. As you look just past this clearing, you notice a troop of four figures making their way through to brush. You hear this very low, guttural clicking from one of them. You can notice these shapes, these figures in a little bit of the now somewhat fading dusk light, they're muscular, and burly, and hunched. You see scaled skin, but deeply scaled all over. Not snake-like, but more lizard-like. You see long snouts with rows of sharp teeth and a frill down the back of the neck. You can see makeshift bits of leather strapped together to form patches of armor across the torso. Big heavy shields, carved from some sort of a large shell, that has multiple rows of spines and hooks down the back of it. You see clubs and heavy blades that are made of makeshift, scavenged metal or weapons that have washed up on shore or have been recovered from others that have been unlucky to make their way to this island and never returned.
Marisha: How many?
Matt: Four of them. Each one of them has a spear.
Marisha: I duck down, I turn to the rest of the group, and I say: (whispering) Snake. Four of them. Shields. Weapons.
Travis: That's a bad gesture.
Liam: I quickly turn around and through the wire say: (whispering) There's four lizard people over here. Looking in the distance at them and at Jamedi.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Liam: Before this spell fades.
Sam: (whispering) There's four lizard people up there.
Laura: (whispering) Oh.
Sam: We should do this quietly.
Liam: 16.
Marisha: I direct the group and I say  You flank this way, and then you guys flank that way. We flank around.
Sam: Just for fun, but let's try it!
Matt: Yasha's cupping behind her ear going, "What?"
Sam: Yasha and Fjord to the right. We'll go to the left.
Laura: Okay!
Matt: At this point, you hear a sudden impact. (growling and impacts) Glancing over, Caleb, you watch as behind them on the bushes in the opposite side of this small path they are walking through, you see three arrows. Two of these lizardfolk tumble to the ground to one knee (growling). They turn around and two people in purple-ish robes with basic jewelry and leather bands rush forward with daggers and a scimitar in the other hand and slash out and start hacking. These lizards are now being assaulted by these people and behind them, one burly man with weathered, dark skin, exposed chest, and these large, billowing, thick arms that look like two very long, five-foot serpents that come protruding out the sides of the shoulders into these two separate snakeheads, full with eyes and teeth, rush forward and slam, biting into the throat of one of the lizardmen. He goes (choking) and gets pulled to the ground.
Laura: Arm snakes? His arm snakes?!
Matt: His arms are snakes. The two other people that you see: you see one male, one female. Both look human, but in the middle of this chaos you can see their eyes are bright yellow with the serpentine, snake eye slit in the center. Now the lizard men are pulling up their shields. One of them has been carved down on the ground. The one with the big hand has pulled the throat closed to the point where it's slowly dying on the floor. They have completely gone into this combat between the two of them.
Liam: Roughly how far away is that fray?
Matt: It's about 60 or 70 feet. They haven't noticed any of you here and you are currently completely in shadows. What do you do?
Marisha: (whispering) I tell them to hold.
Liam: Also, do I see anything glowing on Jamedi?
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: Do you see anything glowing on any of the snake people, though?
Matt: Too far away.
Marisha: We duck.
Travis: We're staying put.
Marisha: And watching. So it's snakes versus lizards, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: This is the ultimate Godzilla movie.
Travis: His big arms are five feet? Like, these big-ass--
Matt: Yeah. About a foot wide and they spiral upward and then they snap into giant fangs that protrude and snap on each. His face is intense and grinning. This is a hunting party. One of the lizardmen grabs his spear and jams it into the abdomen of the man with the snake arms. Looks back and hisses at him angrily. Manages to pull the spear free with one of the snake hands, leaps over, pole vaulting off the ground, the other snakehead coming out and snapping into the shoulder and chest area of the snakeman and then throwing him up into the air. You hear (screech) as he goes flying, spinning up into the boughs, lands on the ground. He stands back up, grabs his shield, and you can see him woozy. There's this black color where the impact of the wound was, and you see the veins growing dark. It stumbles and falls onto its knees and then falls to the ground.
Laura: Some people got venomous bites.
Travis: You ever seen an anaconda mouth? There are lots of teeth in there. It's real bad.
Matt: One by one, you watch as each of the lizardmen are felled from the ambush and--
Travis: Three of the other party.
Matt: Yes. Two of which looked to be comparably smaller creatures, but they just weren't prepared and while the three snakeman hunting party appeared to have sustained a few blows and injuries, they were successful.
Travis: The other two only had eyes that seemed off?
Matt: Correct. As you're inspecting, you can see patches of skin across their shoulders and a part of the chest, you can see scales that appear and then vanish. With the battle done, the quiet hits, and they begin to walk off to a small patch where they had dropped some sort of a satchel. They start pulling out rope and they start tying the legs together of these lizardmen until they have two of them tied on one side and the other two tied ankle-to-ankle on the other. The one with the two snake arms picks up both and begins dragging them behind him in the jungle while the other two flank and look out into the grass below. They begin making their way deeper towards the path where they came, away from you. Their hunt successful, they're bringing their meal back with them.
Liam: The path that they took away, does it line up or deviate from the general direction that we have been heading in?
Matt: The direction you've been traveling has been a little zig-zaggy, because it's been following Jamedi's path and the marking he's making, so you're not entirely certain. It seems it could be parallel to the path you're going, but since you don't know the final destination, you're not entirely certain if it'll line up with it or not.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: (whispering) Jamedi!
Matt: His hand's still up, he's just watching carefully. (whispering) "Shh! What?"
Laura: Are we following them or are we going a different way?
Matt: "We are not to get anywhere near these creatures."
Laura: Good. They eat lizard people.
Matt: "So I have noticed."
Laura: Did you see his arms?
Matt: "I did. It was quite frightening."
Laura: Oh my god. Imagine if it was his legs. How would he even walk?
Matt: "It is a very good question. One that will keep me up late at night."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're not sure if he's joking. Do you guys do anything else or you just let them pass and continue on?
Travis: We're going to let them go.
Laura: Did they leave anything on the ground? Did they leave anything? Did they drop anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: The canopy of trees above, right? There's no sort of--
Matt: Yeah, it's a thick jungle canopy. It breaks in places.
Sam: That was the greatest plan we've ever had. We flanked. The battle was just over!
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: 11.
Marisha: We didn't punch our way through shit!
Travis: It's a new day.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Matt: Amongst the ground where the battle took place, you can see there are mashed plants and streaks of thick lizardmen blood, a few broken teeth that are scattered in the sand there, but nothing beyond that of value.
Laura: I take some teeth.
Matt: Okay. So you get three lizardmen teeth.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I turn around and I say  Do we have anything that resists poison or venom?
Laura: I have a spell that I took this morning that will cure poison, but I don't have anything that protects from poison today.
Marisha: Caduceus, you raised your hand.
Taliesin: I've got both, but it's best applied when needed, really. There's only so much to go around.
Marisha: I feel like maybe with these people we should have a frontline party and a backline party. And maybe a little frontline poison resistance could be good.
Sam: So put our two clerics in front?
Marisha: No! I don't mind going in front, mainly because I have no fucking range.
Laura: Do we have to keep whispering? Can we pretend we're still whispering, but let's not actually whisper?
Marisha: Can we do that?
Matt: It's up to you.
Marisha: But if we give the, "We're stage whispering!"
Taliesin: (normal volume) This is my whisper voice.
Marisha: Just saying, these guys clearly have reach and I don't think we want to have all of us tangle with them.
Sam: Who do you think should be in front?
Travis: Yeah, you make a good point.
Laura: What if we're in the middle because we're so heal-y?
Taliesin: That's fair. We'll be in the middle just in case things go wrong.
Marisha: You're so heal-y, yeah!
Taliesin: I'm pretty heal-y.
Marisha: I'm not going to volunteer to speak for anybody, but I know I'm better when I'm up in close.
Travis: I'll join you. Anybody else? Everybody else should stay at least 20, 25 feet back.
Marisha: Could you give the both of us resistance?
Taliesin: If we get into an altercation, I'll pop both of you as quickly as possible.
Laura: We should have somebody keeping an eye behind. Did you notice the snake people came up behind the lizard people?
Travis: Yasha should stay with the healers for sure.
Marisha: Yasha can look behind. (whispering) Yasha! Behind!
Matt: "I-- I have been."
Travis: The whole time! You, me, Jamedi, and Avantika in the front.
Laura: Avantika's in the front? With you?
Travis: Is that all right?
Laura: Whatever. (laughter)
Liam: I have been spending this entire debate looking north and remembering everything that I saw on the way here from the boat and just calculating an exit strategy, because I remember the things that I saw on the way here.
Matt: Good to know. Now that enough time has passed and Jamedi feels comfortable he puts his hand down and goes, "All right, we press forward. Follow me, I feel we'll have to make camp soon. There is a ruin in front that might give us some cover." Continuing on?
Laura: Jamedi, what if it was his dick that was the snake though?
Matt: He keeps his eyes trained forward but goes, "I imagine it would be difficult to relieve oneself."
Laura: Probably.
Liam: (shouting) Or masturbate!
Matt: He turns around and goes, "Shh! It is a valid point, but I need you to be quiet, please."
Liam: Good riddance.
Matt: Continuing on, the sun sets, and the sky goes through its cycle of oranges to pinks to purples to blues. You haven't quite reached this aforementioned ruin before night falls. Now the evening insects begin to grow louder and louder. The nocturnal creatures begin to let out the nocturnal calls. The perpetual din of the various clicks and cricket noises and other various flapping insects' mating calls into the night become this constant droning sound around you. While the insect bites have subsided, this sound itself is uncomfortable. For those of you who are used to more comfortable sleep, you begin to dread the possibility of finding a night's rest in this.
Laura: Caleb, if you do the bubble thing, can the insects come in the bubble? Can you make it?
Travis: Well, Jester, doesn't it glow?
Liam: No, I'm able to affect its color and have it match. It still looks like a very smooth bubble that is 8-feet tall-- maybe not that big, but it can match the general color.
Travis: Just be dark and not attract any other attention?
Liam: Yeah, it does not glow.
Laura: Okay, then do it please!
Taliesin: Yeah-- this is great.
Liam: I spend the next 11 minutes, I pull out the book, unholster it and start doing a ritual cast, ja?
Matt: Ritual cast of?
Liam: Leomund's tiny hut. Is this where we want to do it, Jester?
Laura: This is where we're camping though, yeah?
Matt: Jamedi says, "Perhaps we wait until we get to the ruin, just so we have some cover beyond the trees."
Liam: Okay, just a little longer then.
Matt: Who's keeping watch on this first bit of a night travel?
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Matt: All right. Roll perception, as will Jamedi.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21? Okay.
Taliesin: I'll pop in the occasional low-level Light cantrip as far away from us as possible, just popping every now and then, if I think I see something.
Matt: Okay. Following this little chain of lights that pop and glow as it goes, eventually you come upon the first signs of stone rubble. Some sort of structure was built here long ago, and has since fallen over, and elements of its masonry either moved or reclaimed for other structures elsewhere on the island, but you can see the basis of walls and joining positions where elements of this previous building were used to maintain and hold the ceiling that has since fallen in. There is a series of walked paths that carved through the various ferns and heavy bush, but you do find the back of one of these walls where Jamedi says, "This is where I slept previously. Perhaps this is the best place to rest. So--" He begins to set up a small tent arranging against the wall. What do you guys do?
Liam: Do we want it just to be us and they have the tent?
Sam: Kind of. I mean, is that rude?
Taliesin: They didn't bring any tents for us.
Laura: But remember that you can hear through the bubble, remember still, though. Okay. So we can't talk bad about them, though.
Travis: I think maybe we invite them in and one of us keeps out--
Laura: But do it like, "Do you want to stay with us?" but do it like this.
Sam: Do you want to ask them with that stink face?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Captain Avantika and Jamedi, did you want to stay with us in the bubble?
Sam: There's no facilities or anything.
Laura: It's stinky in there, but if you want to.
Matt: Jamedi goes, "I am unfamiliar with what this bubble is you speak of?"
Laura: It's whatever. It's a little bubble.
Sam: It's like a tent.
Laura: It's like a tent, basically.
Matt: "I am okay." He heads back to configuring his tent. Avantika tilts her head and goes, "I assume this is some sort of protective measure for your night's rest?"
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Matt: "Then I would be delighted to join you."
Sam: I mean, don't feel like you're obligated--
Matt: "Believe me, it is my honor."
Laura: Great, cool.
Matt: Sheathes the rapier, but keeps the dagger drawn, turned around in her hand so it's face down and looks over her shoulder both ways out towards the darkness. "So how spacious is this?" As you finish the spell, the strange, colored orb appears there on the side of the ruins.
Liam: At the surroundings here or what, we're behind a little bit of stone ruins, or--?
Matt: Yeah, there's a couple of small stone elements there.
Liam: Then it's gray, the same color as the stone. I have control of the color. Also out of curiosity, I am a transmutation wizard, so do I have a sense of how old the stone surrounding us is?
Matt: The stone here-- make an intelligence check.
Liam: Ugh, bad roll. 12.
Matt: You don't have specific information on it. It's quite old. It might be older than this age, might have existed pre-Calamity, or at least somewhere in that neighborhood. But you're not entirely certain.
Taliesin: Mr. Caleb, want to take a walk, maybe? Really quickly around this thing, get a gander at it?
Liam: The thing is, if I exit this bubble now, then it goes away.
Taliesin: Oh, then I'll just report back in a minute.
Liam: I could do it again--
Taliesin: No, that's okay, better safe than sorry. I'll let you know when I see.
Laura: Do you want company? Do you need anyone with you?
Taliesin: Oh, I'd love company, actually, just in case.
Laura: Okay. Beau! Nott! (whispering) Keep an eye on them, okay? Let me know what happens.
Travis: On who?
Laura: Shut up! I mean--
Sam: On who, our friends?
Laura: Yeah, just-- forget it, let's go.
Taliesin: We'll take a look around this thing, and I also want to cast another Detect Undead, while we're walking.
Matt: You're going to look around what?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a walk around this little ruin. I'm going to have the little Light spell up, see if there's any writing on anything, any carvings. I'm going to have Eyes of the Grave up again. I'm going to be looking for any undead.
Matt: Okay. And you're accompanying him?
Laura: I'm watching his back!
Matt: The rest of you are staying within the sphere, gray color, dimly lit on the interior? It can be whatever light source you want at this point. The two of you wander around the ruin. Make an investigation check, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can I help? Does that make it easier?
Taliesin: You roll too, maybe.
Laura: Okay. Nope.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: One! I'm not very observant today, okay? I've got things on my mind.
Matt: Okay. As you walk through and pore over the ruins, the structure is fairly simple. This wasn't some beautifully-made stone hall. Most of the stones here were probably pulled from rivers or were smoothed over, and they're varying sizes, and the masonry is very simple.
Taliesin: Couldn't figure what it's a temple to, or any--?
Matt: Not particularly. You don't know if it's a temple; it could have been an abode. It doesn't appear to be huge. There seem to be one or two adjacent rooms that were set in that space.
Taliesin: And nothing from the Detect Undead?
Matt: Nothing from the Detect Undead, no.
Taliesin: Other than what I already expect to see?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: What I expect to see is still giving off a little glow, right?
Matt: Correct. What's the range on that?
Taliesin: 60 feet, although I will say divination magic would also blind me to that, and if it was full cover, I would possibly not see it as well.
Matt: Right, understood. Caduceus, what's your armor class?
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: As you're looking over the stonework and turning to Jester to mention you didn't see much--
Taliesin: The funny thing is--
Matt: (impact) There is a shape that moves out of the shadows with incredible speed. The light, the faint color being emanated from Caduceus' cantrip immediately falls away and you see the streak of his hair disappear in the nearby shadow. I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Laura: Like he's gone? He's just gone in front of me?
Matt: You watched him be pushed off into a nearby bush.
Marisha: Football tackled, just gone, okay.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: That's a fail. You get pushed off, land on the ground, you tumble, and are held prone on the ground as what little bit of light you can see-- not having darkvision, unfortunately-- what you see is a faint glimmer of two large white fangs, a smattering of whiskers right before you, this growl sound, and a cluster of snake heads that bend around each side of the head.
Travis: I just peed a little.
Matt: The bite attack hits you. That is only five points of piercing damage. Actually, it gets advantage on the second one. Okay, with the advantage it does hit, and the other one, the snakes all snap onto you, multiple snake bites, all biting across your face and your throat. For that, you suffer eight points of piercing damage and you need to make a constitution saving throw, please.
Sam: Mr. Clay.
Taliesin: I mean, come on.
Matt: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no, don't make that sound, Matthew.
Taliesin: And I need to make a constitution saving throw?
Sam: You've got this, Mr. Clay.
Travis: Come on, snitch!
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: That's a success. You take half damage. You only take 12 points of poison damage.
Travis: Oh my god!
Laura: But he's not poisoned?
Matt: Correct. Jester, you see the shape and you glance over and you can see with your darkvision this ten-foot-long leopard-like cat that is currently now pressed onto the chest and body of Caduceus. It bites down towards him and all these strange protrusions from around the shoulders and head area all strike down, as a few of them curl back and look at you and in that bit, you can see a few beats of light, faint bits of starlight and moon that are coming down and reflecting in the eyes of these snake heads. And you hear this (growling) up behind you on the ruin where you were just standing. I'll be right back.
Travis: We got ambushed!
Laura: What do we do?!
Sam: Clever girl.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: How far away are you guys?
Laura: I don't know if we're very far. I don't think we're very far away.
Liam: They went to do a perimeter sweep.
Sam: Find out about these beasts on D&D Beyond!
Travis: Oh shit! That means there's probably more than two?
Sam: Look at these palm trees!
Laura: This is really cool, though.
Matt: Caduceus, you are over here. Jester, you are here.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Now the rest of you are over-- so Jamedi's over here in his tent. The rest of you are all clustered inside the hut. Caduceus--
Laura: Oh god, it's so scary! It's a leopard with snake heads!
Marisha: It's a leopard with snakes!
Travis: Why would you make that?
Sam: That's someone who was drunk at night and was like, "Let's just do this thing!"
Matt: I need everyone to roll initiative. Technically you guys don't hear anything, so we'll see when it comes around your turn.
Marisha: Wait, what? What do you mean, we don't hear anything? You said we heard through the bubble!
Matt: You hear sounds, but there's been no sound yet. You guys have been setting yourselves up for the evening there. The only person that would have probably noticed would have been Caduceus.
Travis: And he is getting fucked up right now.
Liam: The good news is we're totally safe in this bubble and nothing can happen to us.
Sam: And both of our clerics--
Travis: Both our healers are outside! Typical.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Marisha: Wow. Cool.
Travis: Nobody.
Sam: Oh, someone roll for Yasha.
Matt: If you want to get that?
Travis: Seven, plus-- I got to get her sheet.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Travis: I think it's nine.
Laura: I need a Turkish delight before I die.
Matt: 25 to 20. Nobody? 20 to 15?
Marisha: 18.
Taliesin: 17.
Travis: Beau, Caduceus.
Laura: No! Stop! Look at all the powder falling off.
Sam: We're going to eat that whole box.
Matt: 15 to ten.
Laura: 13.
Matt: All righty. Ten to five.
Travis: Yasha has nine. I have eight.
Sam: Nott's sitting at seven. Oh, I'm at eight, actually. Eight.
Matt: Fjord and Nott got the same. All right, Caleb.
Liam: Vier.
Travis: What?
Liam: Four.
Sam: Eins, zwei, drei, vier.
Matt: Beau, you're up first, but you have not noticed anything, so your turn is spent fluffing your space to sleep for the evening.
Marisha: You know what, Fjord? I think Jester is a little jealous. Just throwing it out there.
Travis: Jealous? Jealous of what?
Marisha: Shit, are you fucking serious right now?
Liam: Six seconds. Done.
Matt: Caduceus.
Taliesin: I'm going to yell for help and then I'm going to--
Matt: You all immediately hear--
Taliesin: Help! Then I'm going to tap my staff to wake up my beetles as my bonus action. My beetles are going to make a bite attack on that. I actually have that information now thanks to the update.
Sam: On D&D Beyond?
Taliesin: On D&D Beyond.
Sam: Wow.
Taliesin: So that's a swarm attack, they have a bite. That's plus three to hit, I believe. That's a 13.
Matt: 13 does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay. That's okay. Well, they're in the space right now. I'm panicking, so this is going to be fun. I'm going to start making a weird, awful sound, and I'm going to start getting even paler and a little gaunter, and I'm going to grab it and I'm going to cast-- I'm so panicked-- Vampiric Touch.
Travis: I like it! Get some of that shit back.
Taliesin: So since I'm in contact with it--
Matt: It's a melee spell attack.
Taliesin: Melee spell attack.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for an attack.
Taliesin: What is a melee attack here?
Matt: It's a d20 plus your spell attack modifier.
Taliesin: Okay, plus eight. 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the Vampiric Touch.
Taliesin: Oh man, this is mean.
Matt: They're next and then Jester, you're up.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 3d6. That's (counting) ten points of necrotic damage and I regain five hit points.
Travis: Atta boy!
Matt: As you reach up, your hand grasps its throat and this strange hissing sound happens as you pull life force energy out of it. It's strange threads of purplish-black energy that pull into your body, your wounds healing up slightly.
Laura: So I can see that, huh?
Matt: You can see a faint bit of energy coming out of Caduceus.
Taliesin: Help!
Matt: Is that your turn?
Taliesin: That is, unless I can try and move away.
Matt: You're prone, so it's half movement to try and crawl away. Or you can spend half your movement to get up and then you still have half your movement to try and escape if you want.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and half my movement to get up.
Matt: All righty. So you get up from prone.
Laura: Well, that's good. I thought he was like on top of you.
Taliesin: I'm going to back up against you.
Matt: To here.
Laura: Won't he get an attack of opportunity?
Taliesin: Will he get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: You can go right there and not get an attack of opportunity.
Taliesin: Okay, perfect. That way if you get poisoned, I can un-poison you.
Laura: If you get poisoned, I can un-poison you!
Taliesin: Cool.
Matt: That finishes Caduceus' turn. It's now their turn. The one up top who's hissing down at you, (long exhale). As its jaw opens, this semi-translucent rolling cloud of dust and gas emanates in a 30-foot-cone.
Laura: (intone "Semi-Charmed Life")
Marisha: (intone "Semi-Charmed Life")
Taliesin: Both clerics. Why did both clerics go on a hunting mission?
Laura: We're the stupidest.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're so dumb.
Matt: I need you both to make constitution saving throws, please.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Sam: Picking your dice.
Travis: It's like Avatar in the fucking--
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20. You manage to resist the effect.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Jester, you inhale it, suddenly caught off-guard by it and your eyes blink and go dark as you fall unconscious.
Laura: So sleepy.
Marisha: She's unconscious?!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Wait, like unconscious or asleep?
Matt: Like unconscious. Not zero hit points, but asleep unconscious.
Laura: Like hardcore.
Matt: Yes. All right.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: It is going to move, jump down from here, and begin to move this way to flank you, Caduceus. Now flanking you, is going to attempt to strike at you twice. Good to know, I forgot about that. Bite, this one's claws, so it's going to be with advantage. Okay, that is going to make it an 18 to hit.
Taliesin: Why is it advantage?
Matt: Because they're flanking you.
Taliesin: Oh, goddamn it. Yeah, that hits.
Matt: All right, so the bite attack. You take six points of piercing damage and the snakes snap at you. That is going to be a 19.
Taliesin: That also hits.
Matt: You take another-- ooh, that's ten points of piercing damage. At this point, as you're between the two of them, the one behind you that just put Jester to sleep, all its snakes snap around you, the back of your head and your neck and your shoulders, and you feel the poison through your veins. Roll another constitution saving throw, please.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Two of the clerics went out on a solo mission.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12? 12 just-- no, 12 succeeds!
Laura: Yay!
Taliesin: How do you have that spray and the snakes in the same-- that's just so much.
Travis: How many hit points do you--
Taliesin: Help! I'm standing.
Matt: Half that is going to be 13 points of poison damage.
Taliesin: I'm kind of still standing.
Laura: He's like slumped.
Matt: All righty, they're done. Jester, you are unconscious and sleeping.
Laura: I'm going to dream about the Traveler.
Matt: That brings us to Avantika and Jamedi.
Laura: I'm dreaming that me and the Traveler are skipping over hills and picking flowers.
Matt: "What the shit is that?" pulls out the rapier and the dagger, and darts, leaping over (counting), just seeing these creatures rushes forward. "Hiyah!" and is leaping forward with her rapier and blade and is going to make three attacks. The gray is going to be with the dagger, one rapier shot misses, then one for the rapier and one for the dagger hits. For the dagger, that is--
Marisha: Going for a nighttime stroll.
Travis: We are in a total danger zone, and we're taking strolls.
Marisha: (singing) Danger zone!
Taliesin: It was my own fault. I was suspicious.
Matt: And another ten points of damage on that.
Travis: What? On both? Wow.
Matt: It was a seven and a ten. Then Avantika seems to be holding both blades ready, preparing to defend herself. Jamedi, who stumbles out of his tent, is only half movement, glances over and can barely see what's there. He's on the inside of the dome, pulls out his shortbow, and is going to attempt to shoot it with an arrow and misses with a four. A natural four. There is no light source here; it seems to disappear in the distance. That finishes with his turn. That brings us to Yasha.
Travis: Yeah, Yasha will use her full movement to follow Avantika out of the bubble. The Bublé.
Laura: Can she flank it?
Matt: She can get to about there.
Travis: Is that within melee?
Matt: That is within melee, yes.
Travis: Great. She'll take a swipe. That is a 17.
Matt: 17 will hit!
Travis: So that's 2d6 right?
Matt: 2d6 plus an additional d6.
Laura: Did she rage?
Travis: No, she didn't. Because I-- yep.
Liam: He doesn't know barbarians.
Matt: So no, it's just 2d6 because you weren't raging.
Travis: Great, six points of damage.
Matt: All right. You added the three points for strength, right?
Travis: No! Nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine point of damage. You got it. Second attack?
Marisha: It's real fun playing a character when you don't have their sheet.
Travis: Yeah. That's 16.
Matt: 16? That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 2d6 plus three. Plus four technically because--
Travis: Oh, plus four? So six, so ten. Ten points of damage.
Matt: Got it.
Travis: And with her bonus action, she would like to rage.
Sam: Hey!
Matt: There you go! That finishes up Yasha's turn. Fjord and Nott, you guys up.
Sam: I heard Mr. Clay. Let's go. I'll scramble out, going into the direction that I heard the sound and seeing all these folks over here.
Matt: Okay, so you leave the thing, you can see everyone right there.
Sam: Do I see the beast?
Matt: You do. You see that one beast right there.
Sam: I will kneel down and pew, shoot it in its hindquarters. That's a miss. 12.
Matt: 12 does not hit.
Sam: Reload. Fire again. Wait, do I want to do this? Nope. I'll keep moving and hide behind that wall.
Matt: Right here?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Bonus action hide.
Matt: Role a stealth check.
Sam: Okay, that's a 28.
Laura: Don't you get advantage because of your cloak?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: You could get a 20.
Sam: Still 28.
Matt: You are stealthed there. Okay, so that finishes Nott's go. Fjord, what are you doing?
Travis: Can I use my 30 feet of movement to run that direction around the far side of the ruin? Yep.
Matt: You come around the edge and you turn and see, right there in front of you, another one of these leopard-like creatures, and you're like, "Oh shit!" You didn't even notice there was a second one there.
Travis: Oh shit! I'll just fire both streams of Eldritch Blast from each hand.
Matt: Go for it!
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13 misses, unfortunately.
Travis: Second one. That'll hit. 23.
Matt: That'll work.
Travis: Excellent. Nice. That's 11 points of Eldritch Blast.
Matt: You blast and almost force it off of its feet for a second. It catches itself (growling).
Travis: Nice. Great, that's it.
Matt: (hissing) All the snakes turn to look at you for a second. That finishes Fjord's go. Caleb, you're up.
Liam: I drop the hut, it's gone.
Matt: It vanishes.
Liam: Seeing what I see, I've got the transmuter stone, I can see in dim light, so I'm feeling into my satchel and I take out some molasses and smear it on my hands and cast Slow on-- I'll come as far as I can over here, behind Yasha, to see what I can see.
Matt: Over here you mean?
Liam: I will come this way, not getting closer to them. Yeah, that's fine. That's good. And cast Slow on the two creatures that I see.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: DC 16.
Matt: Yeah, all right, DC 16. That is a wisdom?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, that is a success. 16 on the first roll. That's that one there. The other one, natural 17 plus two, they both succeed, I'm so sorry.
Liam: No, no apologies.
Travis: Good rolls.
Matt: Those were good rolls on their part. Does that finish your turn, Caleb?
Liam: If I have any movement left, I will back away from that shit.
Matt: You have maybe five feet, I'll say right here. So you start backing away. Back at the top of the round. Beau, you're up. The orb has vanished, everyone has rushed out, you look over and you can hear these growls, and snarls, and impacts. Combat is happening. What are you doing?
Marisha: Oh my pillow-- ah! Then I just run and I say: Nott! Duck! I jump over Nott and I'm going for this one in the back, 45-speed.
Matt: Over this way, you mean?
Marisha: Yeah, that one in the back.
Travis: Oh, the one that I've been shooting at or the closest--
Marisha: The one that Fjord's been shooting at.
Matt: All right. First off, roll an acrobatics check to make it over the wall.
Marisha: Yeah, 25.
Matt: Yeah, you're fine. (counting)
Marisha: I'm going to come down, big Iron Man three-point landing, punch to its face.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Wow. Cool. Cool story, bro. 12?
Matt: 12 misses, unfortunately.
Marisha: I crack my knuckles on a rock and I'm like: Ah! And I roundhouse kick it with my second attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's better. That's a 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Wow, that's super great. Five points.
Matt: Five points of damage with your second strike.
Marisha: Then I'm going to go ahead and-- I hit it, so I can do stunning-- no, I need to hit it twice for stunning strike, right?
Matt: No, you just need to hit it once.
Marisha: Just once? Can I stun it?
Matt: Yeah, all right, constitution saving throw. That is a natural one. So you miss the first strike, but as you roundhouse kick, you manage to kick right up in its abdomen. You feel ribs break and buckle under the impact of the kick. Some sort of chain reaction spirals across its nervous system as it falls to its side. It is stunned until the end of your next turn.
Marisha: I'm going to spend another ki point and do flurry of blows for my bonus action.
Matt: Yes, you can do that. Yes.
Marisha: And do pop pop, two more punches.
Matt: Go for it. You have advantage on these, I believe. Yep.
Marisha: First attack. I'll take that natural 17, which I'm pretty sure hits for nine damage, and then second attack is a natural 20. Thank you, Gil. Roll two dice. That's double sixes! That's 12 plus four. No, wait. I double my die roll. I only roll once.
Matt: It would have been fine. It's the same either way. So 16 points of damage.
Marisha: Sorry, 16 points of damage plus four, so 20 points of damage. Wait. No, 16 points of damage. Math!
Matt: After it's stunned, you get up and wail on him. The second hit managing to plunge right towards where its kidney is, and you don't feel any sort of muscular resistance as your fist sinks about an inch or two into its body. You pull back. It doesn't break the skin, but you can feel you hurt some meaty organs in the inside. Does that finish your turn, Beau?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right. Caduceus.
Taliesin: So there's a stunned one behind me? A stunned one on one side of me and a not-stunned one on the other.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm going to hit the stunned one with the Vampiric Touch.
Matt: Go for it. You have advantage on it.
Sam: You're at one hit point!
Taliesin: I'm at four.
Laura: He's getting Vampiric Touch. That means he'll get to heal a little bit.
Taliesin: It lasts. That's 17?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Roll damage.
Taliesin: That was close. Seven points of damage. So I get three back?
Matt: You heal three back.
Taliesin: So now I am at seven hit points. Now I'm going to vanish. I'm going to disappear.
Matt: Okay. You turn invisible.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn invisible.
Matt: Until the end of your next turn.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm going to circle around and back off. Yeah. Then take a couple steps back. See if anything happens.
Matt: It hears you moving and swipes out. It has disadvantage on the strike. The snakes swing out towards you. That is a 14 to hit.
Taliesin: That misses.
Matt: You dodge out of the way. The snakes all snap out in the middle of the air.
Taliesin: I'm going to get a little further out. I'm not going to go off the board or anything. That's fine.
Matt: Okay. That ends your go. It's now their turn.
Sam: You're going to be fine, Jessie.
Laura: Yeah. Totally.
Sam: You're asleep.
Matt: The other one that currently, seeing all the individuals cluster in the area, begins to back up, and its torso swells and its lower jaw opens and (exhales). The other one now releases a similar burbling cloud right there. Avantika's going to have to make a constitution saving throw. Fails. Avantika falls asleep.
Sam: Is this a spray or a cloud?
Matt: It's a cloud.
Sam: So it goes around walls.
Matt: Yep. I need you to make a constitution save, Nott.
Travis: Me too, right?
Marisha: Was I in that? Or no?
Travis: 21.
Matt: You're fine. Make it.
Marisha: 13.
Matt: You succeed.
Sam: 17.
Matt: You succeed.
Laura: How about Yasha? Did Yasha roll?
Matt: Yasha was just out of the range of it, actually. With that, it's going to attempt to run off this way and dart. Yasha gets one strike on it.
Travis: She'll make it reckless.
Matt: Can't, reckless is on your turn.
Travis: That's right. Yeah! That's a 24.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: She's raging so 3d6. Nice! 14.
Matt: As she strikes wide with the blade, the creature (snarling). It's limping a little bit and it's trying to back away. It's unable to move from where it is. Its speed is reduced to zero. So it turns to now look at the two unconscious figures on the ground. That one is stunned so it can't do anything. Jester, you're up. You're asleep.
Laura: I dream--
Matt: Avantika can't do anything. She's asleep. Jamedi is going to move here next to the trees for cover. He's going to reload his shortbow and take a shot at that-- natural 20!
Travis: Oh! Get it, Jamedi!
Matt: All right. That's eight damage with the shortbow.
Liam: Palms are sweaty.
Travis: Knees weak.
Marisha: Mom's Jamedi. (laughter)
Matt: (clapping) Well done. That's fantastic. That's going to end his turn. That brings us to Yasha.
Liam: You just roll your eyes at us at this point. That made me so happy.
Matt: No, "Mom's Jamedi" is pretty great.
Travis: She'll run up and take her two swipes, reckless.
Matt: She going to move?
Travis: Yes. There you go.
Sam: Reckless, Great Weapon Master.
Travis: Yeah! You know it.
Sam: Is she that? I don't know.
Matt: She's not Great Weapon Master, no.
Travis: That's a natural 20. Dope!
Matt: Roll 3d6 and then double that.
Travis: That's seven, 14.
Matt: 14 plus six, I believe. So 20 points of damage. Yeah. How does Yasha want to do this?
Travis: She'll see it sit there, and she'll reach up high, and she'll try and cleave off the front of the jaguar's head in one downward swing.
Matt: The body attempts to leap and the head stumbles underneath with some of the snake heads. The momentum carries it, but it runs straight into the base of the tree, crossing the way before (impact) on the ground. The head, still (growling). Coming to rest on the ground.
Travis: She still has one more attack, can she use the rest of her movement to move towards the jaguar? I think she has ten feet of her movement.
Matt: She could, yeah. If she has the rest of her movement, she can use it to move up.
Travis: Is that melee or just outside of it?
Matt: It's melee.
Travis: Oh great, reckless as well. 21.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Yeah! 14 points of damage. Plus three, right? Or no?
Matt: The 3d6 only happens on the first attack. So it's only 2d6 for the second one.
Travis: Oh, thank you. Lets back it down to nine.
Matt: Okay, got it. Plus six, so 14. Okay, got it. That finishes Yasha's go. Fjord and Nott, you guys are up.
Sam: I'll climb up over the wall and take a shot at the one remaining leopard. A pew pew. 21!
Matt: 21 hits! You have advantage on that shot because it is stunned.
Sam: Advantage! Well, that's a weird roll. I'm going to do that again. It's still like 21.
Matt: Yeah, so sneak attack on them.
Sam: Yeah. Ugh, terrible.
Laura: Oh, I spit on you with that.
Sam: That's okay. 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage to it, struck. The blow hits and sinks in. The creature's looking hurt, but it's still standing, though it is stunned.
Sam: Damn. All right, I'll reload and shoot again, this thing is--
Matt: With advantage because it's still stunned.
Sam: Great. 26.
Matt: 26 will do, yeah.
Sam: And then this is not a sneaky attacky, right?
Matt: Correct. You only get once per round.
Sam: Much better. 11, and I'll use Fury of the Small to make it 16.
Matt: All righty, it's looking really hurt. It's real hurt.
Laura: Fjord gets it.
Marisha: Get it, Fjord.
Matt: Well, Fjord, what are you doing?
Sam: Oh, you know, maybe don't kill it. We can interrogate it.
Matt: Because you guys are going at the same time, you can figure out, these are simultaneous.
Travis: I'll take just enough of a step back to use Eldritch Blast again and I'll fire both of them at it.
Matt: Two strikes on it.
Travis: Eldritch Blast, 14?
Matt: 14 just hits. These are with advantage because it's stunned, don't forget.
Travis: Oh shit. The first one was better. 14 as well on the second one.
Matt: Yeah, both hit.
Travis: Okay, great. (counting) 19 points.
Matt: 19 points of damage, how do you and Nott want to do this?
Sam: What did you use to attack?
Travis: What did you do?
Sam: I shot it with the thing.
Travis: I'll light it up with this crackling green Eldritch Blast energy coming from both of my palms, causing its fur to smoke and burn off and its snake heads to repel!
Sam: Oh my god, that's so visceral and amazing. I'll shoot it in the nose.
Matt: Its torso erupts in green flame and energy, just (explosion). The body slinks to the ground in a smoldering cinder and as it's head (moaning), (arrow impact).
Travis: I'll look over at Nott.
Matt: You guys all take a moment. Make a perception check of the jungle around you.
Marisha: Wait, who? All of us?
Travis: All of us. Six.
Liam: 12.
Sam: Oh. Jester's asleep.
Marisha: Three.
Sam: Quick! Hey, hey, hey!
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13, okay.
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: Keep hitting me.
Sam: Hey! Fjord! She needs some mouth-to-mouth.
Matt: You can use an action to wake her.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Jester, you come to consciousness and you're half-curled on Avantika, who's half-curled on you since you guys passed out right next to each other.
Liam: Caleb is going to quick-walk over to Avantika, kneel down and say, "Are you all right?!" with his back to Spaghetti and cast Identify on one of the swords.
Matt: Okay. Make a deception check.
Liam: Okay. My back is to him.
Matt: I know. There's still motions involved.
Travis: "Are you okay?"
Liam: It was almost a one, but it wasn't. That's pretty good. It's 19.
Matt: As you bend down and focus on the blade-- which one, the dagger or the rapier?
Liam: The rapier.
Matt: The rapier is a plus one rapier. Nothing too crazy or special--
Laura: Aw, should have focused on the dagger.
Liam: Pat the cheeks.
Matt: Okay. She comes to and pushes you away for a second and pulls the blade and puts her back up to the wall and has both blades out and is coming to consciousness, but instinctually is defensive.
Liam: We're good.
Taliesin: I'm going to gather in and keep an eye out before I come back into visual-- I'm about to become visible again.
Laura: Did we win?
Sam: We won.
Travis: I don't know that we did; there were only two of them, and because Caleb left the bubble, it disappeared, right?
Liam: It's gone, but it only takes me 11 minutes. I don't know, are we safe where we are?
Laura: We can do the bubble here and have this wall take up some of the bubble space, or we can be right next to this wall.
Travis: We made a bit of a ruckus, that's the last thing you want to do in a jungle.
Taliesin: Are we what?
Sam: Are you okay?
Taliesin: Uh.
Sam: You don't look very good, Mr. Clay.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to Cure Wounds.
Sam: On yourself?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Did they seem like intelligent beasts?
Laura: I'm going to do it to you, too.
Matt: From what brief encounter you had, it's hard to say. Make a nature check-- actually, no, this would not be a nature. This is not a natural creature. Make a general intelligence check.
Liam: That's better. That's a 20.
Matt: 20? They don't appear to be. They're more intelligent than some creatures in nature, but there isn't any sort of--
Liam: Still animalistic.
Matt: Yeah, still animalistic. They are natural to this island at the very least.
Liam: Knowing that, I would recommend that if I make the bubble again, even if some more of them come, as long as we stay safe for the next ten minutes, if they come, we will be still and sleeping and all they would see is a round stone. They're animals, they will leave.
Travis: Agreed. We should rally up back-to-back while Caleb casts it.
Sam: Are we going to leave the two dead animal bodies right here, next to where we're camping? Because that could stink.
Laura: We'll move over to where our bubble was before, how about that?
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll start them going too, so that wont be a thing for very long.
Travis: Start them going.
Marisha: Start them going.
Liam: I will begin my ritual spell in the same spot.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What were you guys doing out here?
Laura: I was sleeping. Did you notice?
Sam: No, but before that. Why did you come out here?
Taliesin: What?
Sam: I will whisper to you  Why did you come out here in the first place? Why were you walking around in the dark, alone?
Taliesin: No need to yell, that's all right.
Sam: I'm whispering!
Taliesin: We were just looking at the temple, trying to get an idea of what it was.
Laura: Yeah, he was holding his light up really bright and seeing if he could find any words and stuff. I think they might notice some light.
Taliesin: Yeah, that may have been a poor call.
Laura: It's okay! We're learning things.
Taliesin: I definitely feel like I've learned-- I think I need to pass out.
Laura: A good night of sleep will do you very well.
Marisha: Does everything in this jungle have snake heads?
Travis: I think that's a fair assumption.
Laura: Or snake legs or snake arms or snake dicks.
Liam: Mecca lecca hi mecca hiney ho.
Matt: You complete your ritual spell and the Tiny Hut is completed.
Laura: Into the bubble.
Matt: At this point, Jamedi goes, "Actually, I will be, if possible, interested in staying within this this time."
Sam: Oh, all right.
Matt: He grabs a few things from the tent-- and it's a very tight space. Nine creatures is the max, right? You've hit the maximum. You all manage to fit in there in a not terribly comfortable space.
Liam: Ten-foot radius, so 20 from one side to the other.
Travis: I still think one of us should stay up in shifts inside this bubble. Just in case.
Liam: Ja, I'll take the first shift. I'm good. I'm very jittery tonight.
Sam: I'll stay up with you.
Liam: Frumpkin, by the way, is flitting about a little bit from person to person while we talk. Even lands on Avantika's shoulder a little bit and does a little--
Laura: I bring Sprinkle out from inside my hood and make sure he was okay during that whole fight.
Matt: Sprinkle, who is not necessarily used to the type of weather, appears to be very uncomfortable in the heat and being tucked into the cloth and is like, (chittering).
Laura: I give him some water and some little food.
Travis: What are you doing to that poor dog?
Laura: I'm sorry, buddy. (kissing)
Matt: This is the crimson weasel. The dog is with the Ruby of the Sea.
Travis: Eh, whatever.
Liam: Entschuldigung, I'm sorry. Now the owl is pitter-patting on Avantika's hat.
Matt: Just walking along the hat?
Liam: Not constantly, but in a cute way.
Laura: Caleb-- I whisper in his ear  Make it poop. Make it poop on her hat.
Liam: Are you putting the umlaut over the o's in the poop? Pyoop?
Laura: What are you talking about?
Sam: You said "pyoop."
Matt: Avantika puts the finger up towards Frumpkin.
Marisha: Don't do it.
Liam: He flitters up to the finger.
Laura: Make it poop on her finger.
Marisha: Unrealistic.
Liam: He does whatever I say. He bats his little one-ounce owl eyes at Avantika.
Matt: "Interesting."
Marisha: Have you never seen an owl before?
Matt: "Not one so small and adorable and is docile."
Marisha: Mm-hmm. It's pretty cute.
Liam: Frumpkin poops.
Marisha: Really? Hey, Avantika. How many dudes you think you killed?
Matt: "What, in all of my years?"
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "I don't know. I stopped counting at around 50."
Marisha: Oh. That's awesome.
Travis: That's a high number.
Marisha: Yeah, that's a big number.
Matt: "But in my line of work, it's important to not hesitate when some drunk asshole tries to, I don't know, take your ship."
Marisha: We can't relate at all, nope.
Matt: "Well, anyway. I will be taking a nap with one eye open. Good night, everyone." She settles into her camping garb. Who's keeping watch? All right. Make perception checks for the first watch, guys.
Sam: We're inside the bubble, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: But you can hear things.
Sam: 12.
Liam: One. Also, we're being very quiet because we don't want to be heard, but while we're in here, Frumpkin, over a period of ten or 15 minutes, you see this, goes (pitter-patting) along the ground and hops onto Avantika's boot.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (pitter-pattering) Eventually stands on top of her dagger, and I cast Identify through touch of my familiar. And he weighs one ounce.
Matt: Yeah, that's true.
Travis: One ounce is good.
Taliesin: One ounce owl. It's the best band.
Marisha: The One Ounce Owl?
Matt: Avantika, who, as mentioned before, was sleeping with one eye open, essentially, is rested there and then right as you begin to go through the actions of casting, there is a flash of motion.
Laura: (gasps) Oh, no.
Matt: What is Frumpkin's armor class?
Liam: Oh, I'm sure it's terrible. Hold on a second.
Sam: Go to the creature tab on D&D Beyond.
Liam: I am. It is 11.
Matt: Frumpkin suffers five points of piercing damage as Avantika instinctually (slashing, panting).
Liam: Why did you do that?
Matt: "Why did you do that?"
Liam: You know why I did that.
Matt: "And you know why I did that."
Liam: Ey.
Matt: "Be glad it was just your owl. Please do not go peering where it is not wanted, eh?"
Liam: Okay. Don't mind me while I make another owl. I begin casting Find Familiar to bring back Frumpkin as a one-ounce owl. (laughter)
Matt: Recycling Frumpkin.
Liam: I promised Beauregard an owl for a week, so I can't have my cat back. Ten minutes later, there's an owl. Watch is over.
Matt: You finish your watch, seemingly uneventful. Towards the tail end of it, you do see a shape of another one of those leopard-like creatures that stalks on the outskirts of the strange, opaque orb you've created and approaches it. (sniffing) Circles around it for a bit, prods at it every now and then. Spends about 40 minutes or so keeping a watch and then eventually loses interest and wanders off into the jungle.
Travis: Cool.
Liam: (whispering) I like cats.
Sam: Not that kind.
Matt: All right, next watch? Who's taking next watch? We only need one more watch; I think. Jester?
Laura: On the way-- because I got a pretty good amount of sleep during that fight-- can I ask Caleb, before he goes to sleep: Hey, Caleb!
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Could we stick things through the bubble?
Liam: Ja, you can go out and in, and you can-- sorry. You can put your weapons through it, but no magic will go in or out. But you can leave and come back anytime you want.
Laura: Okay, just checking.
Liam: But please don't go on any walkabouts while we are sleeping.
Laura: I'm not going to, Caleb.
Liam: But you already did.
Laura: Well, that was for Caduceus. Don't worry about it, okay?
Liam: Do you promise?
Laura: Of course I promise. I'm going to stay in here.
Liam: That is good enough for me. Good night.
Laura: Good night.
Liam: (snoring)
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Jesus.
Travis: Jesus.
Laura: 20.
Matt: Jamedi stays up to also take watch with you. Oh, nice. He sits across the opposite way, and you're watching this way over his shoulder, and he's looking over yours and doesn't engage in conversation, unless you wish to.
Laura: Have you ever seen those cat things before?
Matt: "I have seen them my first time passing through here, yes, but I was quieter."
Laura: Yeah, we're pretty loud sometimes.
Matt: "You are correct. This has been a bit more challenging than I originally anticipated."
Laura: Have you thought at all about the Traveler?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Do you want a pamphlet?
Matt: "I am confused as to what you are speaking of."
Laura: (whispering) The Traveler.
Matt: "You are strange."
Laura: He's everywhere.
Matt: "And creepy."
Laura: He's really great. I'll give you a pamphlet. I get it out, and I walk it over to him. Here.
Matt: It takes a solid ten seconds of him inspecting it and looking up at you before he--
Laura: Just read it over. There's a lot of information in there. It's really important.
Matt: "Much appreciated."
Laura: He's here right now.
Matt: Tucks it away into the inside of his vest.
Laura: Traveler! If you're here, you should show him you're here so that he will like you even more than he already does! Just give it a minute.
Matt: (farting noise) You're not quite sure who it was on that side that let one loose in their sleep, but the inside of the dome suddenly has a very fragrant air.
Sam: Dutch oven.
Liam: To be fair, we all had Indian for dinner tonight, so it could be any one of us.
Laura: He has cast his blessing upon us.
Matt: "Really, the most impressive of miracles."
Laura: How long have you been working for Captain Avantika?
Matt: "Only for this journey and once before."
Laura: Do you like her a lot?
Matt: "She pays well. Does not judge."
Laura: What were you doing before you were working for her?
Matt: "Working for other people."
Laura: What's the craziest thing you've ever done?
Matt: His eyes narrow at you. "I was the only survivor to the escaping singular mines to the north area of the continent. How far have you traveled outside of the Empire?"
Laura: I'm from the Menagerie Coast, actually.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: So that far.
Matt: "I have delved into a few ruins. I have been lucky enough to survive by working alone. I have seen many friends fall and disappear, but I have made my way. What's the craziest thing you have seen?"
Laura: Ever? In my life?
Matt: "Sure."
Laura: Oh shit, I've seen some crazy shit. This one time I saw a bug carrying a piece of bread that was like five times its size and he was carrying it up stairs. Like up and then he would turn and then it would go up and then he would turn.
Matt: "Will wonders ever cease?" (laughter)
Matt: "I'm going to concentrate on our surroundings for the remainder of our shift if you do not mind."
Laura: Me too.
Matt: He looks out. Now towards the tail end of your shift as the sunlight begins to slowly peak--
Liam: It's a slow roll laughter. It took a minute and then it caught like fire. (laughter)
Matt: There is some more shifting in the nearby bushes and you see two figures beginning to approach the sphere.
Laura: (whispering) Oh shit!
Matt: "Shh." He gets his short bow ready and nocks an arrow.
Laura: (whispering) If they stab through--
Matt: "Maybe. Just shh." As you guys wait you can see, similar to what you had previously seen in your travels on this island, two lizard men armored. One carrying a net that's slung over his shoulder, the other with a long spear both with shields off to the side. Not ready for aggression, but they both approach slowly towards the strange sphere and begin inspecting it.
Laura: (whispering) I put my hand on Fjord's leg.
Sam: Upper thigh?
Laura: Shh.
Matt: (lizard men talking) He pokes it with the spear. The other one steps forward and licks it. They both begin to walk around and inspect it, prod and poke it. Jamedi-- you can see he's just looking out very intensely, bow notched.
Laura: (whispering) I poke Beau.
Matt: They both circle around the back end of it, poke the dome a few more times. One of them picks up a rock and throws it at it. It skips off of the exterior of it and rests in a nearby bush. They both step forward one more time and smell it closely. They both turn around and begin to make their way in the opposite direction of where the dome is set, making their way further into the jungle clearing. One of them stops and looks back behind one more time at the dome and turns back and both of them vanish into the nearby brush.
Laura: Is it getting light yet?
Matt: It is. There's no sign of the sun but it's that early morning soft blue that starting to overtake the evening's night.
Laura: We should wake up. Everybody should wake up. We should get out of here before they come back with more people.
Sam: Who?
Laura: There were I think-- I couldn't tell. They were shadowy, but I think they were like lizard men or snake men.
Sam: Oh gosh.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Could you tell?
Matt: "I would say that they are probably very close to the ones we saw before."
Laura: Which ones? The lizard men or the snake men?
Matt: "They appear to be of the lizard men heritage."
Laura: We should get out of here even though the lizard men are obviously the weaker of the two. Caleb.
Liam: Hm?
Laura: We should get up and get out of here.
Liam: Yeah, okay.
Marisha: They know where we are. They can ambush us.
Sam: Did we get a long rest?
Matt: You did get a long rest.
Sam: Oh good.
Liam: Okay well, say the word and I'll pull it down.
Travis: Let's get everything together first.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Jamedi? Following you.
Matt: "All right, collect your belongings." He goes over and starts disassembling his tent quickly, rolling it up and putting it into his pack over his shoulder. You guys gather your things.
Laura: Should we make the brush look like we weren't sleeping on it and stuff?
Sam: Why?
Laura: You know, so that they won't be able to like--
Matt: Make a survival check, Beau.
Marisha: Okay. Following Jester's lead--
Liam: Do the running man in the mud, Beau.
Marisha: It's not great. Nine.
Matt: There are a series of foot grooves in the dirt--
Marisha: Good enough.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: It doesn't look like anybody slept here. It looks like a bunch of people kicked here.
Laura: Okay, good great. (laughter)
Travis: River dancers.
Matt: Yeah. You gather your things. Jamedi leads you back towards the jungle. "All right a few more hours and I think we'll be in the outskirts of the village."
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us again.
Matt: All right. So... yes?
Sam: Mr. Jamedi? What are we going to find when we get there? Are there any baddies?
Matt: "Oh there are plenty of these snake people where they live. We'll have to be very quiet. We'll have to gauge our passage through their town and try to not be seen. And if we are seen, eliminate whoever catches us before it can notify the rest of them of our presence. Make our way towards the central structure. Trust me. You'll know it when you see it." He looks back to Avantika and says "And I believe that is the quarry in which you paid for, beneath that. Correct?" Avantika goes "That is correct. In we go and see where it takes us. So shall we? Jamedi, lead the way." "All right come forward." You all begin to slowly make your way into the jungle as you cast Pass Without a Trace and we'll come back at the end of the break.
Laura: Whoa!
Liam: Owl on your head.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Oh no god!
Matt: Stealth owl. All right, we're going to take a quick break and come back to that with that stealth check and this next leg of the journey into the island of Urukaxl. Um... what's up?
Sam: The giveaway just happens now. We don't have to say anything.
Matt: Yeah, well...
Sam: Oh we do?
Matt: No, we do. It's still here.
Sam: Awesome.
Matt: So we have our fantastic Wyrmwood giveaway tonight. We have-- here we are. So moving forward you'll have to move into the chat-- that's how it's been-- move into the Critical Role chat on Twitch. That's twitch.tv/criticalrole. To win tonight's awesome Wenge Turquoise Inlay Halloween Dice Vault. (Oohs)
Laura: What does it say?
Matt: It's available now through Halloween on Kickstarter for it.
Marisha: Halloween!
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: It needs to be all the time.
Matt: It's a dice vault that keeps all your dice magnetically held together and it has this cool, glowing runic sigils on it as well as this glowing Wyrmwood symbol. You can find these at Wyrmwood on the Kickstarter currently. The keyword tonight is jungle. So go ahead and put jungle in once. More than once you'll be disqualified. Once again, only available for those in the U.S. and Canada, excluding Quebec. We're working on it. Anyway we'll be back here in a few minutes. We'll see you guys shortly.
Travis: Yeah. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone. So, before we back into the story we have our winner for the dice vault giveaway. Our winner is wolfstarumbra.
Travis: Ooh.
Matt: Now if that doesn't sound like someone's D&D character, I don't know what does.
Travis: Yeah, right?
Matt: Wolfstar, congratulations. We'll get your information and the dice vault sent out to you.
Marisha: It's like a synth wave album.
Matt: It is true. We are... wolfstarumbra (synth noises).
Taliesin: Wolfstar is a total space cowboy.
Matt: That's true. Sorry, wolfstar.
Taliesin: Thank you, wolfstar!
All: (laughter)
Matt: All right. So now in the early morning daylight--
Laura: I'll be right back.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh no.
Laura: Keep going.
Matt: In the early morning daylight on Urukaxl Island, you trudge deeper and deeper into the jungles, as the low mist in the jungle begins to burn away as the day itself grows warmer. All of you getting a bit more adjusted to the temperature and general atmosphere. Beau, you're feeling a little rough.
Marisha: Ah?
Sam: What?
Matt: You get this sweating a little bit and this soreness in your body and this general body pain, kind of a dull pain throughout.
Liam: You've got mono.
Marisha: Nope. I'm great.
Matt: Just kind of (sighs)... you're not quite sure why it's come over you. Pressing on, Jamedi leads you for about another hour and a half, two hours through the jungle before putting his hand up once more to stop you all. Oh we didn't make the stealth check actually. Because I said when come back, yes.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Pass Without a Trace everybody.
Travis: And do I still have-- no I don't. Not anymore.
Liam: Yeah! Natural 20 plus 10!
Travis: Do I have the thing?
Sam: I think that was my--
Taliesin: Please tell me you've got Pass Without a Trace up?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: That was my seventh four of the night.
Travis: I don't happen to have the blessing on me? Laura!
Laura: You rolled with advantage right?
Travis: Do I have a blessing anymore?
Matt: No you've slept.
Laura: I didn't.
Liam: The blessing.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14.
Marisha: 33.
Liam: Woo!
Taliesin: Are you even here?
Liam: 30. Maxed out. Jeez.
Sam: Laura reminds me that I roll with advantage so I'm at a 30.
Matt: There you go. Caleb?
Liam: 30.
Laura: 34.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay and then Yasha. Natural 18, not bad.
Sam: Wow. Stealthy mofos.
Matt: You guys are cruising your way through the jungle and using that score as you approach, Jamedi with his hand out behind him stopping you. Glancing just past his shoulder, you can see the jungle trees begin to clear and the first thing that catches your eye beyond this treeline, you can see a few dozen scattered stone buildings, most of them in relatively good shape, immediately coming into view. You can see the stone coloration is more of a sandstone, yellowish to a dull gray and white with different materials used to accent elements of the constructions. This doesn't match the ruins you previously slept in the night before. These appear to be fresher. You can see the verdant green jungle vines and roots begin to entwine and tangle near the base of some of them and where it's built looks like parts of the jungle have grown up around and helped camouflage elements of this small village. You can see elements of the exposed stone carry snake-head obelisks that appear to be softly carved from bits of a marble material or recovered stone in a similar way that most of the construction has been done.
Sam: Does it look like the figurine that I recovered earlier?
Matt: Similar sculpt and design though larger and of more detail. You see these obelisks about ten feet tall and they tend to be markers at different intersections of travel. You can see probably a dozen or so folk immediately at this position that you're at that are wandering through this city. Some are gathering materials. You can see-- actually up the way across one of these walls, you see four figures that are strung up by their feet. You can see the remnants of the lizard men that are in the process of having the flesh filleted from their bodies.
All: (moans of disgust)
Matt: You see one of the more humanoid ones, probably one of the hunters that you saw alongside the snake-armed man, is there with the blade, stripping it off the bones and sloughing it into a pile next to it where you hear (squelching) over on top of each other.
Laura: Oh that's fucked up. What do the obelisk eyes look like?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Eight.
Matt: Hard to tell at this distance. You'd have to get a lot closer.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Who's got the mote this morning? Who moted? Who dodeca-ed?
Laura: Oh dang we were going to pass it around.
Marisha: We were yeah.
Liam: It's somewhere in the building. We'll find it.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Give it to Fjord again. This is his day.
Laura: Okay, Fjord.
Travis: Well I was going to--
Laura: Stare at it. Look into its eyes.
Travis: You don't want to give it to Caduceus?
Taliesin: I will not say no to it.
Laura: Look into its eyes.
Travis: Give it to him.
Taliesin: I don't know-- oh. (laughter)
Matt: All right, you take your mote of possibility.
Liam: And we are hanging back at this point but not in the thick of it. We're seeing this all from a distance? I was thinking about spells. Yeah.
Marisha: Remember if anything goes down, Fjord and I will take point. Caduceus, I noticed before it seemed like you guys were poisoned immediately, but not lingering?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, I'm feeling fine.
Marisha: Are you? I'm not, like, saying anything.
Taliesin: Why?
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: You seem a little--
Marisha: Nope!
Taliesin: You sure?
Marisha: Yep!
Taliesin: I can do a--
Marisha: Nope. Great.
Sam: Do you feel okay?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Does she look okay?
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: Looking at her; while all of you are fairly warm and sweaty, her complexion is paler than you recall. There is quite a bit of sweat, more so than expected, that is streaming down her body. Her vision appears to be not as focused and she's not making eye contact with you as she speaks to you. Lids are a bit droopy. She doesn't look healthy.
Taliesin: You don't look okay. Are you sure-- you really don't look okay.
Marisha: Fuck you.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Well.
Travis: There might be some leeches in this jungle. Maybe some ticks?
Taliesin: I'm just offering something medicinal.
Liam: I'm ritual casting through this discussion.
Matt: What are you casting?
Liam: Comprehend Languages.
Marisha: Do you see red stripes?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: I feel stripey, I don't know why.
Taliesin: You're clammy and--
Laura: Should we try to--
Sam: Heal you or something?
Laura: Heal you or something?
Marisha: I'm great. I'm awesome. Are you itchy?
Laura: Okay, you haven't been around her as much, when she tells you don't do something-- well, usually don't do it-- but okay, that's weird.
Sam: Maybe it's a human thing.
Laura: She's hiding that she's actually not okay.
Taliesin: Hold on.
Marisha: (sulky) No.
Taliesin: You should take this.
Marisha: (sulkier) No.
Sam: Is it tea, what is that?
Travis: Yeah, what is it? Give her mushrooms.
Taliesin: Take a look at this, just want to take a look. Smell it, does it smell bad?
Marisha: Yeah, you smell bad.
Taliesin: It's a clever distraction. I'm touching her and casting Lesser Restoration. Don't think I've never done this before.
Travis: Smell this. Bip.
Matt: Okay. You finish casting the spell, the energy subsides, you pull back and there's no change in her demeanor.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Don't touch me.
Taliesin: I apologize. That's weird, though.
Laura: Oh I'm sorry, I was wrong  she's just a bitch.
Marisha: I get that a lot.
Taliesin: You really don't look okay. Just for fun, really quickly--
Matt: Based on your medicine check, it looks to be not a toxin. This is more of a disease taking hold.
Taliesin: Just out of curiosity, one check for undead really quickly.
Marisha: I'm diseased!
Laura: Oh no, Beau.
Matt: For the time being, just as a note, as this is coming to be noticed, all of your constitution saving throws are at disadvantage.
Marisha: Oh great!
Travis: Did you get hit in the fight?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No. I just--
Laura: You must have caught something from weird bugs.
Taliesin: Does Eyes of the Grave show anything here?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: Oh, you got malaria!
Taliesin: All right. I did what I can. Does it seem contagious?
Matt: Not from what you can tell. You're not entirely certain what the disease is.
Laura: Oh no, Beau! I'm just not going to stand near you, okay?
Marisha: That's okay.
Matt: It's some sort of an insect-distributed jungle ailment.
Marisha: It's the con plague. We just got back from New York.
Taliesin: You joke, but like a third of our people are down. It's very empty out there.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: It's just Ed.
Travis: And nanny fell, too.
Matt: But at least she got to watch our driver almost beat up that guy.
Travis: That's true!
Taliesin: Too much for me.
Travis: Didn't know the Incredible Hulk was in this motherfucker, did you?
Matt: That was amazing. Anyway, back to task.
Taliesin: Yeah, just be careful what you touch for a little while, we need--
Marisha: I'm always careful with what I touch. I've... Let's just keep moving.
Matt: As you guys slightly press forward, Jamedi showing you a bit of a path off to the side. He glances towards the path where he was going and one thing that catches your attention is you've seen the men with the snake arms, you've seen the folk with the scaled skin patches. What you see now, towards this one stairway portion that now leads to what you previously didn't see below the tree line, but a massive stone structure beset by these stairs on each of its five sides. Envision like a semblance of an Aztec pyramid, but a five-side shape that levels off at the top and there are stairs on each of these five sides. At the base of the nearest one, you see less of a man and more of a giant snake, maybe twelve to fifteen feet long, coiled and muscular. But to a humanoid torso with two heavy log-like arms that rest at its sides. One resting on this large sheathed scimitar-like blade, its head curled up into this heavy, straight serpent snake-like mouth as its jaw kind of hangs open and its tongue (hissing noise). It's just keeping an eye and it slithers across the road, bowing from side to side as it looks across the tree line.
Travis: At the base of the structure it's doing that?
Matt: The base of the structure. You're seeing a variety of these snake people going about their lives. This one is just keeping a watch in that one element and Jamedi you can hear curse under his breath. "It was the path I took to the inside last time. We're going to have to improvise. Which way do you want to go?"
Sam: We're trying to get into the center of this, all of this?
Matt: Avantika's like, "Of course, inside that big thing right there."
Travis: Okay, so if-- I'll go over to Jamedi. If we can clear him, is the path you've taken before clear as far as you can see. I don't know which way you went?
Matt: "As far as I can remember it was fairly clear but it is also-- I had to ensure that there was not many watching. They have these-- like right there." He points over the side and you can see along the stairs almost like a withered person. You see them, like a smaller human, hunched forward, their body a light green tint to itself, kind of this wrinkled, scaled body, its neck protruding and curved outward. It looks what a-- like the lizard folk you had seen earlier but with a longer neck and almost geriatric in the way they carry themselves forward, lumbering. Carrying a large spear and appears to be watching like a sentinel across the upper portion of this large stone structure.
Laura: So it's got a lizard face? Not like a human face with a really long neck?
Matt: From what you can tell from this distance, it's hard to see but it looks to be more serpent and more snake-like.
Laura: Like the Beetlejuice part where his head goes--
Travis: Can anyone create a distraction that doesn't put their own person at risk?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: Jester.
Matt: And you can see there's about four or so buildings between where you are and the base of the structure. There's a small village that surrounds the base of this temple. And so you guys have to find your way through this city.
Laura: This city without being seen? There's a big group of us.
Travis: It's not us, clearing, and then the building. There's stuff.
Laura: Can we make ourselves look like the snake people?
Sam: Sure! Some us can.
Marisha: I can't.
Travis: Although we could throw you in a net and act like you were dinner.
Sam: Yes, yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: What's wrong with that?
Travis: Who's got a net?
Laura: Hey you two, can you make yourself look like snake people?
Matt: Avantika goes, "Uh, that is not really a specialty of mine. However, I'm very good at not being seen." And Jamedi goes, "It's also my specialty. Perhaps we can come from a different direction, smaller group. The two of us can meet on the way."
Marisha: You know what, maybe I could go with them.
Liam: I did not prepare the spell to disguise myself. I thought we would be fighting monster people, so...
Marisha: Such a bitch. Sucks.
Liam: What?
Marisha: Saying that as a person. I'm just commiserating. Moving on.
Liam: Are you Marisha or--
Marisha: I was, yeah. How about I go with these guys, with Jamedi and Avantika?
Matt: They both look at you and say, "The whole point of this was to make it a small group. The more we add to this group, the harder it is for us to do this."
Marisha: Three is a small group.
Laura: Can you be invisible?
Travis: How many of us can change? One, two, three, four.
Sam: But not these two.
Travis: Awesome, great. Two of us, one each take, tie them up in rope--
Sam: As prisoners. They're humans, they're disgusting, filthy pink skins.
Laura: But still we move really stealthily.
Sam: Oh wait, Yasha.
Matt: Yasha's just sitting there with her arms crossed just listening to the whole conversation going--
Sam: Can you change your appearance?
Matt: "I mean, kind of."
Travis: Kind of?
Laura: I don't think she can do it like we think.
Matt: "Like, the wings?"
Travis: Yeah, that's less of what we're looking for.
Sam: We could make a distraction. Some of us can snakey.
Laura: Maybe we do separate into smaller groups and try to stealth it.
Sam: The ones who can't change can go first and we'll make a distraction and then the ones who can can just walk in after.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Oh my god, okay.
Liam: Comforting.
Sam: You'll have Yasha with you. And Beau to protect you.
Taliesin: But without you, they're not going to be as sneaky. We have to stay together if we're going to want to be super stealthy.
Laura: That's a really good point.
Taliesin: Together probably is better.
Sam: They won't have to be sneaky if we make enough of a distraction, right?
Laura: What if we don't make a distraction. We make them look like prisoners, we still try to be sneaky, but then if we're caught, then we have an excuse.
Sam: All right. All in favor of that plan?
Travis: Sure.
Sam: That's one vote.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: What do we think that these beings' reaction will be to not lizard-people being on this island all of a sudden?
Taliesin: Or for that matter, if we can't speak to them?
Laura: I think they will probably try to--
Liam: You think it's an every day or every week or month occurrence? I think we're probably pretty special here.
Laura: I think they might try to kill us and then eat us like that guy over there.
Travis: I think we should try and be as sneaky as possible. If for some reason shit hits the fan, I can make a pretty, I think, spectacular distraction that doesn't put me or us at risk. But I think we should try stealth first.
Taliesin: Stealth with a couple emergency back-up snake looking people.
Travis: Stealth, distraction, fuck shit up. Cool?
Marisha: Okay, so--
Sam: Can you make a distraction far away from us?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: If Caleb and I move together, you have your Message spell that you can send back and forth to Nott.
Taliesin: We all have to move together.
Marisha: Oh, that's what we're doing?
Laura: Well you guys aren't as stealthy without being within 30 feet of me--
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Maybe we do the live bait thing, I don't know.
Travis: What, act like you're tied up?
Marisha: Maybe.
Travis: Yeah, we'll do it anyway.
Taliesin: That's if they see us.
Travis: We'll tie your hands in the front.
Taliesin: If they don't see us, it doesn't matter what they look like.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Liam: I think that if anyone that looks like me or you shows up on this island, anyone who sees it is going to come asking questions immediately.
Travis: I agree.
Laura: What if-- do any of the people we see walking around, do any of them wear cloaks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: That's not a bad thought.
Laura: 14.
Matt: Looking around, you don't see many cloaks. The weather here is warm enough to the point where there isn't the need to bundle. There's no need for hoods because the society here wants to make sure they can very quickly identify who's a part of their faction and who isn't. So yeah, there's no cloaks. You see what are like open robes, simple bits of cloth just to cover aspects of the body for protection from the sun or otherwise, but beyond that it's mostly just skin and scales.
Laura: But there are some people that look just like people?
Matt: There are people that look mostly like people from a distance, but upon closer look, their skin in places that gets a greener hue in patches, their eyes are yellow. Very snake-like eyes. Sharper teeth.
Laura: I will use my disguise kit and try to make it look like they've got scales on them. They will probably know the people in their own fucking village, though. Let's be honest.
Travis: Are there several dozen people, or is it--
Matt: Now that you've watched, the first view you had was only the first few buildings in front of you. Now that you've stepped forward and glanced, you can see there's maybe about 30 to 40 buildings that sit around the base of this entire temple. You've seen a few dozen in the streets, so the society here, you can assume somewhere in the neighborhood of like one to three hundred people live in the city total.
Travis: Let's do that, yeah.
Marisha: That's a lot of people.
Travis: I'll use Mask of Many Faces to look like one of those fucks and let's try to paint some scales on the non-changeling folks.
Laura: (makes blipping noises)
Matt: Okay, so you're applying them to Yasha and Beau and Caleb?
Liam: And the clothes we've seen on these people are like what? They're purple robes you've mentioned?
Matt: Purple robes, simple cloth skirts. Most of the whole thing that's worn there is for general protection and adornment. You can see jewelry adorning some of them, but it's very simple and it's more for purpose than anything extravagant or presentational.
Liam: (groaning) I begin to put-- ugh-- my spell books into Fjord's bag.
Travis: Of Holding?
Liam: Yeah, I can't have ornate book holsters and-- ugh. Trying to make myself look as simple as possible.
Laura: Disguise Self!
Matt: Avantika goes, "I'll be watching. Au revoir." And she kind of--
Travis: Where are you going? Where are we meeting? At the temple? At the top?
Matt: "I figure the top of that would be a very effective place to meet. Is that not correct? That is where you entered last time, non?" She turns to Jamedi, who's keeping low to the ground and goes, "That is indeed where I was. There is a room inside there I could not walk into. I could not find a way through. That is when I returned. So we'll meet there." Avantika goes "Au revoir." Waves her hand through the air, and marks a few symbols and you watch as she disappears.
Liam: I had that spell once.
Sam: Are these guys painted green? Is that what we're doing?
Matt: That's what we're going to find out right now! You're proficient with your disguise kit, so it's proficiency bonus plus I'll say dexterity check to see how well you can apply these details to their bodies. Roll for each one of them.
Liam: I'll look like a 1980s Halloween costume. Come on.
Matt: For Caleb?
Marisha: State fair, all the way.
Liam: Make me look like Spiderman.
Laura: Eight.
Matt: Caleb has these green circles on his face in splotches. And you're like, "Great!" For Beau?
Laura: Okay, that's way better. 17.
Matt: Beau, actually, pretty good job; the linework and shading you had done in these various patches on the inside of the brow line helps make her look a little more snakelike. You've sunken the jowls, you've done the scattered patches with the patchmarks.
Liam: You look pretty convincing. How do I look?
Marisha: Polio?
Laura: Now that I'm seeing how good I did on Beau, I'm realizing how shitty Caleb is, but I'm not going to tell him.
Liam: What do you mean-- what did you say?
Matt: Yasha seems strangely excited. "Me next, me next."
Laura: Okay, okay. Oh.
Travis: Is that a one? Shit. God-- why did you roll out that big fucker?
Sam: It was good before!
Laura: This one's from Sam!
Matt: You guys look amongst yourselves while she's working on Yasha, and finally she finishes, and voila! Pulls back, and it's just Grinch. Just green, head to toe. Bright green. It's pretty bad. But you feel pretty confident about it.
Laura: You look amazing. It's a really good color on you.
Matt: Yasha goes, "Okay. Let's do this."
Sam: I'm going to grab Caleb and be like  You're going to be fine out there. It's going to be fine. Just think like a lizard, right?
Laura: What do you mean she looks bad? I think she looks really good, Caleb.
Sam: I'm going to take some flowers and just stick one in his hair for good luck.
Liam: Is that better?
Sam: I don't know. It's good luck, though!
Liam: I lean in, way in, to Nott's ear, and say (whispering) Oh, by the way, Caduceus says that Jamedi is actually a dead thing.
Sam: What?! What?! No, but what? Shit! Why are we following him, then?!
Marisha: I lean in and say, Are we whispering now? We whispering again?
Sam: No, they're gone!
Liam: (whispering) I was telling Nott that Jamedi is a dead thing. Caduceus says Jamedi's dead.
Marisha: What?
Liam: (whispering) Keep it on the DL.
Marisha: The dead-low?
Sam: Why are we following him?
Laura: Just because he's dead doesn't mean he's a bad guy.
Liam: (whispering) Are you whispering too?
Laura: Yes, of course I am!
Liam: (whispering) We don't have a choice!
Sam: What if he came here, was killed, and was sent to come get us to bring us back as feeding for whatever's down there?
Liam: (whispering) What if we let the pirate queen tie rocks to our feet and we're dead?! We have to do this! We can kill them later!
Travis: Agreed.
Matt: "Agreed."
Sam: Ah! You're still here?! Shit!
Matt: "Well, I hadn't left yet. I was curious to see your--"
Sam: Did you know? Where are you?
Matt: You don't see, the voice is coming from nowhere.
Sam: Is Jamedi here?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Looking around, you do not see Jamedi immediately in the vicinity.
Marisha: Is he on speakerphone?
Matt: No, this is Avantika.
Sam: Avantika! Did you know he was dead?
Taliesin: Specifically he was not telling you, because I knew you were going to panic.
Sam: Did you know he was a dead guy?
Matt: "I was not aware, but now I am very curious as to where you found this information and what you think this means."
Taliesin: I just know things. I don't know what it means. I was trying to find a moment to figure out if you knew, or if we should tell you, or if this was part of some sort of plan. I hadn't figured it out, and for some reason, I had not realized that I was walking around with a bunch of gossips. Well, it's what I get, I suppose, for trying to be sneaky about things.
Travis: Nice job. He's going to fucking leave again. Good job.
Marisha: Whose side are you on?
Taliesin: I've been doing my best not to be thrown by it. It seems like he's been standing up all right.
Matt: "He's done work for me before, and was successful."
Laura: He's pretty cool.
Sam: Has he always been dead? Is this a recent thing? Where are you?
Matt: "Don't worry about it. But nevertheless, he has done his job so far. I assume we just keep a close eye. If ever he decides to give any sign of turning on any of us, well, it's eight against one."
Travis: Indeed. I'll take out several feet of rope from the bag of holding and say: We should do this before he achieves the destination. Forward.
Matt: "See you on the other side." And you watch as the dust-- (puffing) the footprints.
Taliesin: This is why I was trying to keep it on the down-low.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: I knew that certain members of the party may get a little excited. I, myself, had a moment of panic. Had a moment of panic myself. I've been keeping it contained.
Laura: You feel okay now?
Taliesin: No, there's a dead guy walking around with us. That's unsettling. That's unsettling to my very core, I've got to admit, but you know.
Laura: Well, now we just have to go walk around snake people and not be seen, so that's fine.
Taliesin: It's an improvement, at the very least.
Marisha: Hey, Fjord. Avantika can go invisible or peek into what we're saying. Can you do that?
Travis: No. Well, kind of. Not really. No.
Marisha: How much have you heard?
Travis: I mean, I can pop in and out, but--
Liam: We've seen you flit about.
Travis: Yeah, that one.
Laura: But you can't hear what's on the other side when you're popping in and out, can you? Oh, yes you can! That's right, you can.
Taliesin: How many fingers am I holding up?
Travis: None.
Taliesin: Oh. I forgot to-- I'm really distracted right now. I don't know why I bother.
Laura: We should probably get pretty snaking on here.
Travis: We'll put two in the front, two in the back, and put these three in the--
Laura: In the middle.
Matt: Your Pass Without a Trace has probably faded at this point, with the travel you've made so you have to recast it to get the spell bonus.
Laura: You guys, we should probably do it again?
Taliesin: Mm-hmm.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: (singing) Pass pass pass pa-pass. I give Yasha the Blessing of the Trickster.
Travis: Good call.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on, real quick  (clearing throat) Real talk, for just a second. If Yasha comes with us, and we puppet her, and she dies, Ashley's going to be real mad. Just pointing this out last time, because we did this with Pike. Not saying one way or the other! Just saying, we're going to continue on with Yasha? Okay. Done. Done. That's all I'm going to say.
Sam: She's going to be in a defensive stance for most of the fight.
Travis: She'll be fine. I'll pilot her.
Laura: I would say let's text her, but she's in another country, so she probably wouldn't get it.
Matt: Stealth checks, guys.
Travis: 21.
Marisha: Fuck!
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: 20.
Liam: 25.
Sam: Oh, I get advantage. 30. No! 38.
Liam: Rogues, man, rogues!
Travis: What? Natural one?
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: She's a lizard person; she'll be fine.
Matt: And for Yasha, if you want to roll twice?
Travis: 25. Natural 15.
Laura: At least I look like a snake person.
Sam: You're going to be a loud snake person. That's fine.
Matt: You all begin to make your way towards the first set of buildings. There's that one individual that's flaying the bodies of the lizardmen. Has made their way through two of them. There are two more that are in the process of being stripped. There is one street that breaks through two of the ones closest to you. Do you wish to take that path? What do you wish to do to stealth in? Because part of the pathway here is out in the open, so you'd have to gauge your timing.
Travis: Describe the two again?
Matt: Where you are now, towards the main stairway that leads at the top, you have about two streets or three sets of buildings to get through. The ones closest to you, there are two large buildings that are immediately towards your side. One side has nobody around it. The other one has one individual that is currently flaying the hanging corpses of the four lizardmen.
Travis: I vote for the one guy flaying the lizardmen.
Marisha: Agreed.
Laura: Because he's distracted?
Travis: Mm-hmm. And it's one guy.
Laura: The other one has no guys.
Travis: That never is no guys.
Laura: Okay. I follow your lead, captain.
Travis: Let's go that way. We'll go towards the flaying.
Matt: Okay. You make your way, exiting the jungle way, and are you going quickly and quietly so nobody notices or are you strolling through, using your stealth as a means of trying to keep any sort of--
Travis: Trying to blend in.
Matt: Got you. Okay. All of you move forward. Are you dragging them behind by ropes?
Marisha: No, we're in the middle. We're Assassin's Creeding it.
Matt: Got you.
Travis: If there is a building to walk beside, I would prefer to have our shittily drawn and one very nice one closest to the building with us on the outside.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Yeah, I'll be the barrier.
Travis: Mama elephants and then baby elephants.
Marisha: Aww, yeah!
Matt: You guys cluster and begin to shift as this herd of snakefolk making your way towards that direction.
Travis: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
Matt: As the light hits you as you leave the branches of the jungle and begin shifting, fully open now in the middle of the midday sun, immediately you feel the heat on the back of your neck and shoulders begin to grow hotter and hotter as the nerves build up inside. You cruise through the open area, and to the left you hear a (whip cracking). You glance over and you can see another one of those massive, mostly-snake, serpentine hulking individuals is currently wielding a whip. There is a cluster of lizardmen that are currently chained and are currently pushing on a heavy bar that is dragging a large piece of stone out of the jungle and towards the center of the city. They're bent into slave labor for these people. They are now pushing it forward. That catches you off guard for a minute, but you continue to focus and move forward. As you get closer, you can hear the slick sound of the flesh being pulled from the back of the lizardman's body-- (wet ripping)
Travis: Aww, yeah!
Matt: Onto the side-- (coughing) Had me a little bit of spittle on that one. (coughing) Pardon me. Moving around the side, the figure finishes and throws it, and glances over and looks at your group. Starts looking somewhat curiously as you pass.
Sam: (hissing)
Laura: (hissing)
Matt: Make a deception check, Jester.
Laura: Why?
Travis: Why?
Laura: Because I rolled a shitty stealth, that's why. Oh no.
Matt: Yasha's going to make a deception check as well.
Laura: (gasp) Natural 20!
Matt: All right. Yasha rolled pretty high on that, actually. The figure goes back to its work and begins carving it. You move past that into the first street walkway. It moves on for about fifteen or so feet and then it has a crosspath. It goes to the right and the left, and ahead it goes to another set of buildings behind, and there is an alley that turns to the right and it seems to end at that point. So you have a T intersection before you, and then it ends and curves to the right. Where do you go?
Liam: So an intersection to go through to get to the right turn past it?
Marisha: I see. So it's like a cross-T intersection?
Matt: Right. You keep moving and then there's a right and left, or you keep moving and then it turns to the right.
Travis: Are there any windows, doors, anything on these buildings?
Matt: You see open squares. There's no glass panes, but there are carved rectangles removed.
Travis: Can we move up to the side of one and glance in as we slow down just a little bit to peek through?
Marisha: On this T intersection?
Travis: No, before we get to the intersection.
Laura: Just to be clear  I always thought that a T intersection was an intersection like this.
Matt: Four-way stop.
Travis: Four-way stop.
Marisha: Four-way stop.
Matt: That's my fault. It's a lower-case t! Lower-case t.
Laura: No, no, no, I get it. I just wanted to make sure.
Matt: Sorry, I meant a cross intersection.
Liam: Don't you listen to her.
Matt: No, it's fine. It's an important clarification. That's my brain fart, man. I appreciate the backup. But yeah, you're right on that.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Okay, guru Liam. Yeah. Liam from Ojai.
Matt: Namaste.
Liam: I'm going to go listen to your tapes, your level seven tapes.
Taliesin: A most expeditious movement towards the temple, I suppose, would be the--
Travis: Do we look in the window?
Matt: As he's saying this, you glance to the window to your left, and as you look in, make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh!
Travis: Ugh, seven.
Matt: You glance inside, and it's a simple interior. There's a little bit of sunlight coming through from the opposite side of it from the direction of the light in the sky. It frames ambiently the outside of a figure that appears to be humanoid that is sitting over a table, and you can hear some grinding or carving sound, but its faced away from you. Looks to be some sort of workshop.
Travis: Keep going?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: All right, we'll push through.
Matt: You push towards the first intersection.
Marisha: Can I see the tower-- the temple at all, above the buildings?
Matt: Yeah, you can see the top of the temple from here.
Marisha: Okay, does this curve look like we're still heading the right way?
Matt: It'll start making towards the nearest stairway that leads towards the top.
Liam: It's just the bottom of the structure that curves around.
Matt: As you approach the T-intersection, you hear this murmuring of conversation coming from the left-hand side of it. (whispering)
Liam: I cast Comprehend Languages.
Matt: You do, and you pick it up. It is Abyssal.
Liam: Abyssal?
Laura: Oh! No, Yasha can't--
Sam: Yasha can speak that, no?
Matt: I don't know, if you had her character sheet, you would have the benefits of knowing that. But, not my responsibility. So you pick you on it and the muttering is akin to, "Come, we have to pick up the hunts. The food stores are running dry this season." As that comes to you, you glance up to the side and you guys watch as two figures round the corner. They're both mostly human in body, though their bodies are scaled and a dull green-gray color. Their heads, fully serpentine, snake jaws-- the hood's not open, but retracted-- and they both have, strapped across their shoulders and torsos, longbows that are at rest, and they have quivers filled with arrows. They walk past and glance over at the rest of your crew. Make a deception check, Jester.
Sam: (hissing)
Laura: (hissing)
Laura: Big money. Okay, okay. 22.
Matt: Yasha as well. The disguise didn't quite go well, and Yasha and Caleb-- even in the clustered section-- catches some attention. The first one keeps walking. The second one glances over and looks to the rest of you and, "Hey!" You hear in Abyssal, "Hey, what've you got?" You guys hear (Abyssal).
Travis: As that one turns, I'll turn to Yasha and I'll go (hisses) and punch her in the face and say, "Go down!"
Matt: She goes (grunting). She's not used to rolling with the punch.
Liam: You're going to take a dive.
Matt: She goes down and the figure looks up, its eyes narrowing and the tongue (slurping).
Travis: Stand over Yasha, take the rope, and start tying her hands together.
Matt: "Wait," to the other one, who stops, looks back and goes-- begins to walk towards you, keeping a hand on the bow.
Laura: I cast Hold Person.
Travis: Oh no!
Laura: Sorry, I already said it. At 3rd-level.
Matt: On both of them?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That's a failure; that's a 12. Oh, that's cocked. And a natural four. They both fail. They both freeze in place.
Laura: We should tie them up and then go.
Travis: We're in the middle of the street. We can't tie them up. We've got to go.
Laura: We're in the middle of the street?
Matt: You're in the middle of the street.
Laura: Let's go. Let's walk quickly.
Marisha: Run.
Travis: Yeah, we're picking up and moving expeditiously away.
Laura: I really should've charmed them instead of held them, but let's go.
Travis: Yeah, or distraction.
Sam: Want to do a distraction now?
Travis: Not now. We've got to go.
Liam: Distraction is them.
Matt: They are currently paralyzed in the middle of the street for the next minute. Once they're released, they're going to do whatever they do.
Travis: Do we seen anyone else around besides those two?
Matt: Right now? Make a perception check.
Travis: Oh, 20.
Matt: Glancing about at this moment, the only other figure you can see near this intersection is one of the patrolling, hunched creatures you saw up on the temple itself on the second tier, and it's currently walking away from you and doesn't seem to be paying attention.
Laura: Grab them.
Liam: Yeah, actually, we should chase them and kill them because they could actually snap out of it at any second.
Sam: We should kill them?
Travis: Kill them.
Liam: Kill them.
Laura: Grab them; slit their throats.
Travis: They're large beings, right?
Sam: Pull them off the street.
Laura: Pull them off the street.
Marisha: Pull them off the street.
Sam: Okay, Yasha.
Matt: Hold on. While you guys are deciding on this, every turn they get to make a save.
Liam: Yeah, that's right.
Matt: Natural two and 11 plus two, 13. Yeah, they're still held.
Travis: Pull them off the street.
Laura: Pull them off the street.
Marisha: Pull them off the street.
Sam: You and Yasha should pull them off the street.
Matt: You guys lift their arms and pull them off.
Marisha: Weekend at Bernie's.
Sam: Are there any doors around here?
Matt: The building to the left of you was the one that you saw the craftsman in. The one to the right, you can see there is an open doorway.
Laura: Is there anybody in there?
Sam: Let's just go in?
Matt: All right, you drag them over.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk forwards first to peek in because I look like a snake.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Taliesin: All right. That's terrible, 11.
Matt: You glance inside. You can see what looks to be a pile of rags on a small table in the corner, but nobody else appears to be in there.
Laura: Inside.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. You guys pull them inside.
Laura: Wrap them up.
Matt: Another 11 plus two, 13, failure. An eight plus two; they're still--
Laura: Okay, tie them up as much as we can and then gag their mouths. Toss them in a corner.
Travis: We're working the rope.
Marisha: Should we kill them?
Liam: Ja. They would kill us; we watched them skinning the inhabitants of this--
Matt: That's a five.
Sam: Will they wake up if we hurt them now?
Matt: 15.
Travis: Fuck it. I summon the sword, I run over, and I shove it into his chest.
Matt: What's your DC?
Laura: 15.
Matt: One of them succeeds.
Laura: We're already tying him.
Matt: You're in the process of it.
Marisha: He kills one guy. I snap the other guy's neck.
Matt: The guys that's paralyzed, going ahead and attack.
Travis: I plunged the sword into his chest.
Matt: Attack twice, each time with advantage.
Travis: Okay, with advantage.
Matt: Both hits are crits because he is paralyzed.
Travis: Amazing. That is a 16?
Matt: 16 hits.
Travis: Are they automatic crits?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, the damage is a crit. The second one is a 23. Yeah, 23 is the highest one.
Matt: Yep, both hit, both crit.
Travis: Both hit, both crit, okay.
Marisha: You said one saved?
Matt: One saved.
Laura: But we were putting things into their mouths.
Matt: You were tying them up and (gasping) begins to-- but we'll get to that in just a minute.
Travis: 29.
Matt: You carve through him. These are more ranged hunters; they're not as hardy as some of the other ones out there, and this one, you manage to in just two quick swings, carve through the chest and take down most of the throat-- just tears open. It crumples to the ground, dead. The other, who is currently being bound, (snarling), begins to start making noise and getting ready to--
Liam: Are we in a stone room?
Matt: You're inside a stone room.
Liam: Is there wood?
Matt: There's not much in the way of wood. It's mostly stone in here.
Liam: Fire Bolt.
Travis: No!
Laura: No!
Matt: Fire Bolt or Fireball?
Liam: Bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wouldn't that still make noise?
Matt: It'll make a little bit.
Marisha: Great, so let's just fucking kill really stealthily really fast!
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack, everyone who's doing this.
Sam: I'm shooting with a crossbow.
Matt: Okay, it is definitely flanked, so you get a sneak attack, but you don't have advantage on it because it is not fully bound.
Sam: 22 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: 24.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: 17.
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Six damage; I'm going to stun him.
Matt: Natural nine, fails.
Sam: 17 damage.
Matt: What's the Fire Bolt do?
Liam: It's 2d10, which is 19.
Matt: Okay. You watch as he (grunting) freezes up from the stun and then (gasping) takes a bolt to the throat. The eyes begin to roll back as a Fire Bolt blasts in its chest, and you watch as it burns the edges of its face up in cinders. It goes quiet before limping to the ground, the smoke coming up from its smoldering corpse.
Travis: Out.
Laura: Cover him up!
Matt: At this point, the rags in the corner begin to shift as you watch what appears to be an individual sleeping in the corner begins to come to and it (raspy breathing)--
Marisha: God, go.
Matt: Look up, and you can see what looks to be a more humanoid-- one of the most humanoid of the ones ones you've seen there, but with the scales-- what you managed to make yourself look like-- begins to come to consciousness and goes (snarling).
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Does he see us?
Matt: Yeah, you woke him the middle of his sleep.
Laura: Charm Person!
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That is 15. it succeeds.
Marisha: You're supposed to be better at this.
Laura: Somebody do fucking something, because he shook it off.
Matt: (snarling)
Marisha: Throat punch!
Matt: Go for it. The words you hear are, "Who are you? Help!" as the shout is beginning to come out, but you go ahead and--
Marisha: Uh-huh, 15.
Matt: Yeah, 15, that hits.
Marisha: Stun.
Matt: That's a failure, yeah.
Marisha: Uh-huh, he's stunned.
Matt: Stuns in the bed.
Taliesin: (sigh) Sacred Flame.
Matt: All right. This individual doesn't have a lot of hit points, so let's say for the sake of brevity here, being stunned, you guys quickly--. Yep. However, it did have the opportunity to shout out one phrase. We'll see if the guard heard it.
Sam: Oh boy.
Travis: You know what'd be great right now? A distraction. Maybe fire?
Matt: It's a natural 15.
Sam: Set fire to the house?
Liam: It's all stone.
Travis: It is all stone? There's no wood? There's no nothing?
Matt: Inside this chamber, it's all stone. There're stone tablets that have been carved and then placed up against each other. There's occasional scenes you can see through, and the ceiling above appears to be slats of stone that have been placed in a lattice formation.
Marisha: I pull out all of the cherry bombs that I have and I go-- fucking fireworks!
Laura: But wait, maybe nobody heard.
Travis: Let's just get out.
Sam: Is there any hole in the ceiling or anything? Is there a roof?
Travis: Ceiling stone too?
Matt: The ceiling, looking up-- there is no second floor or anything, and it looks like it's just a continuation of stone. It looks like a series of thin slats have been placed one next to the other in a layering to create a ceiling.
Taliesin: Back door?
Matt: No, this entrance is the only way in and out. There's a window--
Travis: Out.
Taliesin: I'm going to quickly grab two arrows from one of the dead lizards and stick them in his chest, and I'm going to walk out. I want to go-- yeah.
Sam: It was a suicide.
Laura: Maybe they all fought each other.
Matt: You guys turn the corner, and as you exit, you can see that large, looming, slithering snake figure with the huge scimitar that's probably 15 foot from tip of tail to nose. Thick, burly body, slithering its way towards you.
Sam: Like, can see us?
Marisha: Yeah, what do you mean towards us?
Matt: Meaning whatever noise, this figure managed-- I rolled high on its perception-- to pick up the sound of its call, and it's making its way in your direction.
Travis: Okay. I will point down the street away from us and go (hissing) and cast Major Image, and I will summon the image of a manticore, a large manticore roaring and thrashing in the streets.
Laura: Oh, that's tight.
Matt: All right, full sound and everything? Because Major Image you can do the full spread--
Travis: The whole shebang-- make sound, it smells, the whole thing.
Matt: So now, suddenly, in the middle of this room, all of you turn and look and see as a full-grown manticore, akin to the one that you battled not that long ago beneath the mines near Alfield, you see wings unfurl (roaring). All of a sudden, all eyes in the city shift to this creature. In a matter of moments, you can see arrows being loosed in its direction, hitting the ground near it. The snake that was approaching you spins around, begins to draw its scimitar (snarl) and it begins to approach.
Travis: (shouting) Go!
Sam: On us, or on the--?
Travis: Manticore.
Matt: Manticore.
Sam: Great, let's run.
Laura: We run away.
Matt: You put that behind where the serpent was?
Travis: Yes, so he has to turn and move away from us.
Matt: Okay. You guys arc in the completely opposite direction heading towards where the base of this temple is. There is another one of those that is currently at the bottom of the stairway that is making its way in your direction.
Laura: I point at the manticore.
Matt: You point at the manticore?
Travis: I can't. I point at the manticore. No, you did it.
Matt: She's the one who did it.
Laura: Hey man, I look like a snake person!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: This is going to be great.
Matt: The DC's low on these because you're disguised.
Taliesin: Hey!
Laura: Nine.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Just had to beat a ten.
Matt: You had to beat a ten. You push, and it turns around and sees the manticore and looks at you curiously. It has to take a moment to decide which is more dangerous, the manticore or this curious serpent. Goes ahead and grabs you by the chest and begins dragging you with it.
Taliesin: It makes a grab for her?
Matt: Yeah. It can't choose, so it just grabs you.
Taliesin: Blindness. I'm going to blind him before he grabs her.
Matt: Okay. Well first, it has to try and grapple you, so go ahead if you want to fight it.
Laura: Okay, yeah, I'll try to back away.
Matt: All right, so acrobatics check. Natural two, so make an acrobatics or athletics check to try and break it.
Laura: Cool. One.
Matt: Yeah, it grabs you. However, what's the DC on the spell?
Taliesin: Constitution 16.
Matt: Natural two again! It was like 20-- two. All of a sudden, it loses sight and you see its eyes starting to blink out where once the piercing yellow snake eyes fade to a snowblind white (snarling and hissing). Pulls its blade out and looks around, looking freaked out at the process. You have to break that grapple; it's still holding you.
Laura: Oh, I--
Matt: Make another athletics or acrobatics check. What're you making?
Sam: Jesus. Oh, nope. Do another.
Laura: That was a very aggressive roll. Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: Yep, your choice.
Laura: Acrobatics.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Ah, god!
Laura: My dear lord! Fucking seven, but he still rolled a natural two, right, no?
Matt: Well, no, that was the last time. He rolled a natural eight, so he's still holding onto you. He's blind, but he's holding on to you. The scimitar's out and he's swinging it wildly at whatever's in the area now that it can't see and is (gnashing).
Travis: Can I take the sword and take a shot right at his wrist that's holding her? With the hand that's holding onto Jester?
Matt: Sure. It's going to be at a major penalty.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So go ahead and roll.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh boy, this is going terribly.
Travis: It's going great, we're doing good. Oh, that's good! That's a 14.
Matt: Okay. I'll say that'll give you advantage on your next check.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: It doesn't break the hold.
Sam: I will step forward and say to the beast  How does the Lucidian Ocean say goodbye? It just waves. And I'll cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter on it.
Matt: Okay. Natural four. (cheering)
Matt: Falls to the ground and begins chuckling, though in the middle of this chaos it is now blinded and laughing. It releases you.
Laura: Okay, good.
Matt: The manticore is still roaring. Creatures are now flooding out of the city to combat this and you can see some of them are swinging and are beginning to notice something strange...
Laura: Ooh, run away!
Marisha: Run, run, run!
Matt: All right, so you guys are charging towards the temple. You bypass that one. Now you're heading up the stairs. Up across the way, there's one of those crotchety snake people that you saw patrolling the upper area who has its longbow out and is currently firing one after another arrow toward the manticore. It's moved off to the side. It doesn't seem to immediately notice your presence as you approach. If you guys are trying to stealth by without getting its attention, I need you all to make another stealth check now that you've engaged in combat.
Laura: Add ten!
Sam: You'll need it.
Matt: Well, hold on. Pass Without a Trace, is it concentration?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Because you cast Hold Person since then.
Laura: Oh, Hold Person is a-- you're right.
Sam: Spell management!
Laura: Sorry, I didn't realize Hold Person was a concentration.
Matt: It's okay. It is. So straight stealth checks, guys.
Travis: Yep. 13.
Marisha: 22.
Liam: Seven.
Sam: Roll for Yasha. 20!
Laura: 12.
Taliesin: 17.
Travis: I have Yasha's character sheet and she rolled a ten.
Matt: Okay. Hold on.
Taliesin: I mean.
Marisha: It was super down the middle.
Liam: Every week we're like, this is the episode where we start thinking. This is the one.
Matt: There we go.
Taliesin: (singing and whistling) Something's out there.
Matt: Natural 20 on his end.
All: Aww!
Marisha: What do you mean?
Matt: I rolled a natural 20 on my d20.
Marisha: No, I know what you mean.
Matt: (arrows whizzing) (gnashing)
Travis: How far is this person?
Matt: About 15 feet above you, above the stairs, just in the middle of the open. Glancing off to the side, the manticore still drawing most of the attention, but people are starting to figure out the weirdness about it.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to Misty Step up behind them and I will kick them down the stairs towards the rest of us?
Sam: Ooh.
Marisha: Yes!
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: Yes, you can.
Marisha: Oh my god, yes!
Matt: In a whisp of dark shadow energy you see Fjord just vanishes from sight and teleports right behind. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Oh god, those used to be really great for me. 17!
Matt: Natural four. You Sparta this fucker right off the side of the temple. You watch him tumbling down the entire length of the side of this temple before landing on the ground and skidding and looking unconscious and bleeding out of the side of his mouth at the base of the temple.
Liam: Fire Bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: On the dead guy?
Liam: Yeah. Is he dead or is he unconscious?
Matt: He's unconscious.
Liam: Oh, yeah. That's a 22.
Matt: Technically, he's prone because he's on the ground, so it would be at disadvantage. Roll one more time.
Liam: It's a 23.
Matt: That hits, roll damage. So with the damage he took from the fall there. Oh, yeah.
Travis: Oh, that's not me, jesus. I was looking at Yasha's and it was like, "When did I get Necrotic Shroud?"
Liam: It's five.
Sam: (exaggerated Arnold Schwarzenegger accent) Five points of damage.
Liam: That's the sound it makes. Phoomph.
Matt: So he's burning and not moving. You assume.
Laura: He's even more unconscious now.
Travis: Let's get the fuck out of here.
Laura: Keep going.
Sam: Is there an entrance to this tower?
Matt: Oh, you're going stairs up the side. It levels off towards the top of it, but you don't know what's at the top there.
Marisha: Is there anyone following us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Many people.
Taliesin: Everybody.
Marisha: Okay. 15.
Matt: Glancing around, I mean, the manticore's causing a huge ruckus in the middle of the city and those that have begun to realize that it's an illusion are looking around confusedly and at the moment do not see you, but that time is going to be very short because you're out in the middle of the sunlight. The trees aren't above you now. This is an open clearing in the middle of the jungle and you're just running up the side of these temple stairs with the light down upon you from the sky.
Liam: How tall is this person who's just died?
Matt: Maybe-- from foot to shoulder?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: About four foot.
Liam: He's only four feet?
Matt: Yeah. It's like a tiny, hunched--
Liam: Okay, I take out some iron and I go (whooshing) and he shrinks to an eighth of that and I pick him up.
Matt: Wait, the one you just shot?
Liam: Yeah, I don't want to leave him here.
Matt: He's at the bottom of the temple.
Liam: Oh, he went down there? I thought he was at our feet.
Matt: No, you guys have been climbing the temple and he kicked him down off the side of it. It's all good.
Liam: I would only do it if he was right where we were.
Matt: Right. No worries.
Laura: Let's just keep running.
Travis: Yeah. In! Out of light. Out of the way.
Matt: Okay. So as that idea flashes through your mind, that would be cool, but it's not going to work, so you keep rushing and we come back to the moment as you guys dart up the side of the temple. Everyone make one more stealth check now that you've had that brief encounter and teleported behind to make sure that nobody catches you before you reach the top portion.
Marisha: Stealth you said?
Matt: Stealth, yes.
Marisha: Oh god.
Travis: 12 for me. Natural 18 for Yasha.
Marisha: 12.
Liam: 11.
Sam: 20.
Laura: 19.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: That's still a pretty high average and it's more of an average thing. So a couple of stumbles coming up the stairs from some of you, but largely you make it, cresting to the top of the platform. You get there for a second, take a few breaths and realize glancing over to the side that people are still emerging, looking over the side and you can see dozens of these snake people are emerging from the buildings and heading towards the sound of this raging manticore. There are those that are now scattering from the manticore, trying to engage them to tell them it's not what they think it is. There are eyes glancing around and you can see the sentinels are starting to-- But you guys are keeping low and out of sight. No one at the moment seems to notice where you are and the few that have noticed you you've either taken out or have lost sight of where you were traveling. So for the moment, you feel safe. At the top of the temple, you can see some sort of a worship terrace. There's torch-bearing statues of snakes sitting near the corners of each of these five sides of the temple, similar in shape to the one that you found, the idol. In fact, at the top of each of these torches, there's a similar golden idol, but while the one you have is smooth, each of these has a carved divot on the inside where the torch itself is actually burned in. Or where materials are placed in to burn as a torch when the night comes or for any ceremonial use it requires.
Travis: The top is open air?
Matt: Right now, it's just an open platform. You do see in the center of it a heavy stone tablet about 12-foot by six-foot the rests directly in the center. You can see metal rings that are bolted in with metal rivets that hold it on the sides of the tablet. The stone itself appears to be stained with a variety of various shades of stain.
Sam: Like blood?
Taliesin: Oak, mahogany, rosewood.
Taliesin: So much stain.
Matt: So much stain.
Laura: Where are we supposed to go?
Travis: Yeah, we head towards the tablet.
Marisha: So wait, you said that there are tablets with rings on the corners of the tablet and splatter--
Matt: There was one stone table about 12-foot by six-foot and on the sides of it there are rings that are bolted in and there are stains across the surface.
Travis: Of the crimson variety?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Yeah, super sacrifice-y.
Liam: Obviously for killing. With all the reading I have done, can I ascertain or have a good guess of what this is used for besides?
Matt: Yeah, you have a good idea.
Liam: Yeah, I know it's for killing people, but does it do something? To do something. Summon things, make a god happy...
Taliesin: Does it look like a trap door to me?
Liam: I have read many books.
Matt: Well, make an arcana check and make a religion check.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: I got a one.
Matt: Okay. You're not entirely certain.
Taliesin: I got a 12.
Liam: Not my neighborhood.
Matt: You get the sense that this is for sacrifices, but you're not entirely certain to what ends and to what purpose, whether it's just ceremonial or for a specific purpose.
Taliesin: Okay. And it doesn't look like it moves?
Sam: We're still out in the open?
Matt: You're out in the open on the top of this temple, but you do see, as you're inspecting the table and looking around, there is a trap door made of the same color stone that has a handle built on it that you can pull back.
Sam: Should I check for traps?
Liam: Yeah. Is it safe?
Sam: For sure. I'll check for traps. 18. Investigation.
Matt: All right. It looks to not be trapped. Though it is locked.
Sam: All right, I'll unlock it. That's 28!
Matt: 28. Getting down to this device, you can see it's an intricate, thick, long key, what would have probably been that long and have a whole series of intricately designed cliffs to it to hit all of the various--
Sam: Tumblers?
Matt: Tumblers, thank you. To get this to open. However, you manage to get multiple angles and press and hold, and press and hold with all of your tools. It takes everything in your bag to get through it, but you manage to just hit each one properly and lift, and it pulls open with a grinding sound.
Laura: Shut up, Nott! That was very good.
Sam: That was not supposed to work!
Laura: That was really good.
Sam: That was luck. That was dumb luck.
Taliesin: Let's get in. We're all going to get in. Come on.
Matt: You do hear a smattering of hissing and growling sounds that are getting louder and louder.
Laura: Get inside of it. (mumbling) Can you re-lock the door or something?
Sam: Probably not, but I can try.
Laura: Okay, we'll just shut it and hope they don't notice that we came up here. Let's go.
Matt: Okay. You all dart inside. At this point, as you are stepping inside, you see on the opposite end, rushing up the edge, you see Jamedi go, "(huffing) Very good," and he jumps inside with the rest of you.
Marisha: Where's Avantika?
Matt: "I have not seen her."
Marisha: Bullshit.
Matt: "I haven't!"
Marisha: Are you lying?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Taliesin: I'll join this one, as well.
Marisha: God fucking bull fucking shit.
Taliesin: 25.
Marisha: Nine.
Matt: Hard to read.
Travis: Doesn't matter.
Laura: "Hard to read." Whispers!
Sam: Hey, how great was New York Comic Con?
Travis: Boy, sure was fun, Sam.
Sam: We met a lot of great Critters--
Travis: We did!
Sam: And thanks for everyone for coming out to the live show, and we'll be back again next year? I don't know.
Taliesin: So I keel over mysteriously dead. Just kidding! Sorry. No, all right, cool.
Matt: All right. He darts inside, the rest of you guys are inside. You close it?
Laura: Yes!
Travis: Yes, we close it, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm closing, slowly.
Matt: All right. As you are just closing it gently, you can see shapes coming up over one, and now a second, side of the temple. There are a few charging up. All right. It locks from the inside. The latch locks behind itself.
Sam: I locked it!
Travis: We may not have much time. Darkvision, what do we see?
Marisha: Goggles.
Matt: You're now standing in a small, five-foot by eight-foot chamber. You are all cramped in there, but there is a spiral staircase that leads down.
Travis: Time to go.
Sam: One at a time.
Travis: You first.
Sam: Why me?
Travis: Check. For. Traps.
Laura: Whoever I'm standing next to, I grab their butt.
Taliesin: Who's rubbing my elbow? It's weird.
Sam: I'll take a big swig of liquor and start going down, scanning for traps.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Laura: Avantika! Avantika, are you here?
Sam: Oh, that's shit. I only rolled an 11.
Matt: All right. There is a faint noise you hear that goes, "Do not worry. I was waiting for you up top this entire time."
Liam: I'm casting Mage Armor.
Matt: All right. Mage Armor is on. What'd you roll?
Sam: 11 for investigation.
Matt: Seems safe.
Sam: Coast is clear! Let's go! (running)
Matt: Okay. Nott's charging down the stairs, the rest of you follow suit. The chamber beneath has some sort of faint, fiery light source, and it opens up below you. As you begin to move downward, you can see a pentagram-like chamber. Not a perfect pentagram, but there are five sides to it; one that's shorter than the rest that gives this diamond-shape to the interior of the chamber. There are two walls on the sides, and there are bits of green growth in the corners. In the center, there's a raised platform with some sort of fountain that rests in the middle, and there are four figures standing around this fountain. Which is precisely what you notice as Nott, your foot hits one of these steps that (clicks) gives out from underneath and the stairs suddenly shift into a sliding platform.
Sam: Weee!
Liam: How steep?
Matt: It's about a 45-degree angle.
Liam: So how fast does the fall feel?
Matt: It's only about ten feet, 15 feet down, and what would have stopped you to catch a moment, you all of a sudden (slipping).
Liam: So it's not that far down?
Matt: It's not going to be a hard fall, but any sense of stealth you would've had, or any sort of surprise, is gone, as all of you manage to barely glide your way to the bottom or stumble on your ass, sliding to the bottom of this chamber. There in the darkened, lit interior chamber, three of these figures standing around this fountain, holding bowls, glance over their shoulders towards you and hiss with sharpened snake teeth.
Laura: Oh, good, this is the bowl drinking party! We were looking for it, oof.
Matt: Behind the fountain, you see one jet black-gray humanoid body. It's a little larger than the others with a giant, extended snake head. The cobra hood, long and wide on each side. Its eyes glowing red from the back.
Liam: I begin casting Slow.
Matt: And we'll get to that next week. (shrieks of disappointment)
Marisha: Oh my god!
Travis: Oh, shit! The big black cobra hood, arms or just the serpentine body?
Matt: It's a slender humanoid body that's tall and thin, but its body is gray scaled and armor plates and then, from its shoulders, it extends up into the hooded cobra head.
Travis: Taller than the other three that were in the chamber?
Matt: Yeah, it's probably about seven-foot tall, and the others are about five-and-a-half, six-foot tall.
Liam: Let's skip and go to the next episode!
Matt: We got a week.
Travis: Don't we have that little box that appears that's just counting down from ten, nine, eight, and it's going to automatically skip to the fight right now, right? We can just hit it.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: We all got shit to do in the morning.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, that's so true.
Travis: Yeah, but cobra fight!
Matt: I know. We'll pick it up there next week.
Taliesin: Tomorrow's a long day.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Good shit, Matt!
Matt: Now, you guys are in the temple. We'll see where it goes from here. I'm excited.
Marisha: It's so Indiana Jones! This is so Nathan Drake!
Laura: I was like, where are we going to stick the rubies! Where do we stick their-- I don't know where to stick the rubies.
Marisha: The rubies have a purpose, I know it!
Laura: Look at all these dice that fucked me tonight!
Matt: (laughing) That's a t-shirt. Well, thank you guys. We'll pick this up next week. I'm excited. Thank you, guys, for sticking around with us tonight. Have a good week, we love you, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
Liam: We play Dungeons & Dragons!
Matt: That was a good one, Liam. Well done. Before we get started on tonight's chaos-- because we've missed you guys these past two weeks. We had the fantastic all-honey Honey Heist in this place last week. Everyone did a great job on that one. Now we're back to see what's going to happen here. We left it a little chaotic last time. Before we get to that, we have some announcements to get through, starting with our fantastic returning sponsors of campaign two, D&D Beyond.
All: D&D Beyond!
Matt: Sam?
Sam: Yes. D&D Beyond tonight, guys, sent a lot of talking points. This is not a-- I'm happy. I'm happy to honor our sponsor and read all of these talking points, but it's a lot. So I'm not going to really do a bit as much as just read them. I had to spice it up a little bit. You guys all know that I'm a master of impersonations and impressions and I thought, who better to impersonate than the people right here at this table? So I won't be reading these talking points. Maybe Matt will!
Liam: You typed this right in front of me!
Sam: Pax Unplugged is this-- I can't see! I didn't rehearse this! Pax Unplugged this weekend-- fuck! Pax Unplugged is this weekend, and D&D Beyond will be there. So bring your siggles and long flowing hair because D&D Beyond will have tables set up outside of the Adventurers League gameplay area. Come and say hi! Oh, but take it away, Travis!
Travis: Oh, wow.
Sam: I love sports games! And guess what? D&D Beyond will be running a roleplaying roulette one shot on the Pax main stage, which is kind of like football, hyuck hyuck! Marisha says, so like-- sorry. I don't have a good Marisha. So like, you can get more information about the one shot on unplugged.paxsite.com or whatever. I'm cool, I guess. It's weird being next to all these old guys from like the 80s or whatever.
Marisha: I'll let that one fly, yeah.
Sam: Liam will take over.
All: Whoa!
Liam: Time travel!
Sam: I can't read this!
Travis: I'll remember this, Liam.
Sam: The one shot game description is  Want to know what happens when a group of D&D luminaries come together to play completely random characters? So do we. Come join the fun as players create characters at the table during the event, using D&D Beyond's randomize feature to improvise their way through a classic Dungeons & Dragons adventure. The event will be from 1:30 to 2:30 Eastern Time on Saturday. Aah! Next, and look, it's Sam Riegel! Hey, look at me, I need constant attention! Also, D&D Beyond launched their new show, Heroes of the Vale, this week! Join DM Mike Mearls, with players T.J. Storm, Todd Kenreck, Shelly Mazzanoble, and more in this new show set in the Nentir Vale! I'm an egomaniac! Laura has to add on to that--
Laura: Oh god.
Marisha: Oh god, why?
Sam: Oh, check out Heroes of the Vale-- why would she be British? Check out Heroes of the Vale every Wednesday at 2pm Pacific on twitch.tv/dndbeyond, and follow @DnDBeyond for more info. My dice addiction is becoming a problem! Finally, last but not least, Taliesin says--
Taliesin: Bring it. I'm excited. (cheering)
Sam: He says, Non bagno te, bagno il tuo cuore, che sempre piú tu mi possa amare. Semper parere D&D Beyond! He's a crazy figure from Greek legend!
Taliesin: I have gained so much weight since that picture, good lord.
Sam: I hope that some of that was--
Matt: Wow. Thank you, Sam.
Sam: We'll also post this in text form somewhere because I don't think anyone was listening.
Travis: There is some good stuff in there. We'll find a way.
Sam: There is great stuff and you should check it out.
Matt: The Heroes of the Vale thing is actually-- well, that's friend of the show, T.J. Storm. Todd Kenreck also. Mearls is amazing. I've had the opportunity to play with him a couple times, and he's a fantastic DM. Super excited they're actually putting that show together.
Sam: Check them out at Pax Unplugged this weekend.
Matt: Yes. Oh, and Shelly's in there too. That's right. Awesome. Check that out. All right. Thank you, Sam.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Matt: Also, while we're on the topic of Sam, you can check out Sam's recent fireside chat we had earlier this week.
Travis: And his thighs.
Matt: He did have his thighs. It was unlocked because of your guys' fantastic contributions to Pablove's charity that we ran this past month or two ago. You can check it out now at youtube.com/criticalrole. Through the month of November, we're still raising money for Travis' favorite charity, Operation Supply Drop.
Travis: Operation Supply Drop! Yes. Operation Supply Drop supports military members and their families-- active duty and veterans-- and their transition back into civilian life. They are a fantastic charity. Love to all of our brothers and sisters in the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, US Coast Guard, all of the branches. We've got so much love for you guys. We have already reached our goal, but you still have time to donate. You can get all of the details at critrole.com/osd. Very soon we will have a first-person shooter with me either doing very well or really sucking and screaming like a little girl. Please donate, share, tell your friends and family. It's almost the end of November and giving love to all of our brothers and sisters in the armed forces.
Matt: Thank you for that.
Sam: Woo, Travis!
Matt: Another fun thing. We've teamed up with our good friend, Patrick Rothfuss, and his fantastic charity, Worldbuilders, to create a special set of Vox Machina single-use buff cards that can be used for your own home games. I ask all you dungeon masters out there, if one of your players brings one of these to the table, to the best of your ability, please allow the one use the card allows because, if not, you hate charitable things, and you're a terrible person. They paid good money to help good people to use these cards. If your DM won't let you, you let me know.
All: Whoa.
Laura: Roll an intimidation check.
Taliesin: Does the DM get to keep the ticket if you spend it? Is the question.
Matt: An eight. That's on par for me, I think.
Travis: Not higher than 15.
Matt: Not high enough for me. I'm not an intimidating sort.
Marisha: You lead with your heart.
Matt: Yeah. Persuasion I can do. For an example, we have the Grog card, where a player of any character can rage once during a combat, regardless of their class, as you want to.
Travis: (as Grog) Yeah, you've got a rage.
Matt: Or we have the Vex card, allows you a charisma boost to a persuasion check because you wink, and it improves it dramatically. For every $10 you donate, you'll be entered to win one of these cards. All proceeds go to the Heifer Foundation, who provide long-term solutions for people in need in ways that help those individuals prosper and in turn support their communities. For more info, and to donate and be a part of this, check out http://bit.ly/wbdnd. One more time, you can put in bit.ly/wbdnd.
Travis: W-B-D-N-D.
Taliesin: Wih-bih-dib-n-dum.
Matt: Exactly. Excited to be working with Patrick on that. I think you had another announcement. Do you want to make it for us?
Laura: Oh, I do! Look at the store on Monday. There's going to be some stuff going up!
Marisha: What stuff?
Laura: There's some stuff, but this is one of them! I wanted to tease you guys. Oh, it's our official Tusk Love notebook, with art lovingly done by @OrcBarbies on Twitter. Yeah. I am in love with this.
Marisha: So good.
Laura: So in love with this. Carry around your own fabulous romance novel! Then make your own notes in it.
Sam: That is so cool.
Matt: The author's pretty cool too.
Sam: Is that Jester on the cover?
Laura: Of course it is!
Travis: Who's the gentleman?
Laura: A beautiful Oskar. Oskar and Jester!
Sam: Wait, who does it say it was written by?
Laura: It says it was written by Matilda Merceria!
Sam: That's his pen name.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I love it.
Matt: Well, thank you for that. Excited to see that go up.
Laura: I might use that tonight.
Matt: I think that's all we have for our announcements, so with that, my friends--
All: No!
Matt: Let's jump in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [TV static, click] [groovy Critical Role theme]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone.
Travis: Just your mouth. Just your mouth. You had two noses.
Matt: Oh, I had two noses? There we go. That's much better. Thank you, Sam, for that nightmare fuel.
Laura: Why do I have so many teeth?
Sam: I thought it would look weird.
Matt: All right. Last we left off, the Mighty Nein had allied themselves with Captain Avantika of the Squalleater, a pirate making her way through the Swavain Islands in search of ways to unlock this entity that she was fanatically obsessed with, this Uk'otoa, which was revealed to be the patron to Fjord's abilities. After retrieving one of these sought-after orbs from this long-reused temple by the snake folk on the island, and apparently unlocking one of these seals, you made your way back to Darktow on her ship, did a bit of piracy. Arrived, were introduced to the Plank King, who looks over the Revelry, the band of pirates that helm this side, pardon me, of the Lucidian Ocean. You then decided to have a plan to break into the Squalleater at night while everyone was at rest, or some of you at rest. Some were distracting the captain. In doing so, you managed to uncover a well-hidden journal of Avantika that was written in some sort of a cipher.
Laura: Kind of like the journal?
Matt: Kind of like the journal. Didn't quite look like that, but artistic interpretation. Your entrance was solid. Your exit left a couple of signs of disturbance, but nothing implicating. You returned, and through the evening and the luck of a ridiculous roll, you managed to, via Caleb, break the cipher on it, after knowing what information was there through your spell, and write a cipher to allow anybody to read the contents of this journal and see what's within. However, the morning in which you awoke, you discovered that the crew, at least, had seemed to have noticed all these strange events through the night. The ransacked chamber pointed to some tomfoolery. You were all asked to make your way to the shipyard to meet with Avantika and the crew on the Squalleater. With not far behind you on the docks the rest of the crew of the Mistake being brought as well. Upon you stepping up and encountering this moment of tension, it seems that, through Vera's glance through some form of divination magic, while some people have guarding objects or items against themselves being sought through divination, certain objects in pockets are not free of it. They glanced over in Caleb's direction, and in that moment, you cast Wall of Fire. Before we get too far into this, I need you to place your Wall of Fire for me, please, on this battlefield.
Travis: Take your time, take your time.
Sam: What can it do? Can it go up things?
Liam: 20 feet tall. I can choose which side the wall burns, 10-feet reach, and which side does not.
Laura: Ooh, that's good. That's good.
Sam: This is going to be hard on the boat.
Travis: Take your time, take your time. The longer you take--
Liam: This table can't bear my weight.
Laura: It can too, because we all got on the table for Sam's one shot.
Sam: Now available on YouTube, guys.
Matt: Okay, while you're doing this, I'm going to put this up there, now the announcements are complete.
Liam: I don't know how I would make it go on an angle without causing problems.
Travis: We'll just assume it covers that, right? Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, best you can.
Liam: Best I can.
Taliesin: Oh sweet Jesus.
Matt: Oh, you're creating a U?
Sam: Is that possible?
Liam: Well, this isn't what I imagined in my head, but we are standing where we are standing, so I'm going with what I see.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yeah. I dig it.
Liam: Okay, I want that to go like that, but it's not going.
Sam: The whole show is just this.
Matt: This is it. This is the entire thing.
Laura: Oh my lord.
Travis: It's actually really cool looking.
Liam: I would like the last one to be on this gentleman.
Matt: Okay. We'll place it here.
Liam: Leaving room to get to this gangway, but he's burning and that's going like this.
Matt: We'll say that he is currently--
Sam: Ablaze.
Liam: Facing this to there, also allowing access to both the gangplanks-- (clattering, laughter)
Matt: That was amazing.
Travis: That was the best thing that could have happened!
Matt: All righty. Meticulous placement be damned.
Taliesin: Someone's getting Velcro in their stocking.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I can't make them stick, man!
Matt: It's fine. Liam, leave it. Leave it alone! You've lost miniature privileges.
Travis: He was there too. He was there.
Matt: In the final moment-- we lost one of them up top, too.
Liam: Fucking real D&D, people. It went better in rehearsal.
Matt: Sure. That'll do.
Liam: We all know-- I'm not going to touch it-- the gangplanks are open.
Sam: We lost a guy on top. Wasn't there a guy on top?
Travis: He's right here behind Avantika.
Liam: That's right. He's just out of your line of sight.
Matt: Perfect. Now meticulously, carefully placed to not waste anyone's time. At that moment, you all, noticing this moment of tension, there's a flash from Caleb's hands. Figures, their eyes dart in his direction as he finishes releasing his arms and firing out of the actual deck of the ship, you see a 20-foot tall high wall of roaring flame and fire burn around in a U-shape encompassing the exterior. You can feel the heat on you, but it's not so intense as to hurt. However, I need you to roll damage.
Liam: It's a ten-foot reach on the outside of this thing.
Matt: Correct. That's 5d8 fire damage, if you don't mind.
Travis: On the burn side?
Liam: On the outside. I choose the side, so clearly I'm not going to burn us.
Travis: Anyone within ten feet of the outside gets 5d8?
Marisha: That's fucking rad. Kill some bitches.
Travis: I don't know why I didn't expect it to be that amazing.
Liam: Shit! Bad rolls. 17 total.
Sam: That's fine. That's a good start.
Matt: That's a success for the dwarf over there. He takes--
Liam: A one, a two, and a three were the first three rolls.
Matt: That's a shame. Eight damage for him. For Bouldergut, that is a failure.
Liam: Also to toss out  the flames are opaque, so they cannot be seen through.
Matt: Mm-hmm. 17 for Bouldergut. To the guy it got put on directly, that's a failure on his point. He takes a full 17 points of damage. The guy who's guarding the other plank there, that's a failure on him. He takes 17. Avantika fails with a natural one. Avantika takes a full 17. Then we have the guy over there. He fails with a three. He takes another 17. Then Vera rolls a natural 20. Vera's right there. Vera takes eight. Now that the Wall of Fire is in place, crackling around you, blackening the surface of the deck, the roaring of its sound as it (whooshing), roll initiative, please.
Travis: Advantage for Yasha.
Matt: I pre-rolled initiative for the guys here to keep it going. 25 to 20?
Marisha: Hang on. 24.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15, anybody?
Travis: Yasha has a 15.
Laura: Oh, I'm 19.
Matt: We have Jester and Yasha.
Laura: Wait. Beau, Jester, Yasha?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: That's great.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 12.
Travis: 11 for Fjord.
Matt: Fjord at 11.
Taliesin: 12.
Travis: Beau, Jester, Yasha, Caduceus, Fjord.
Matt: All right. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight.
Travis: How do you spell your name, Caleb? That's right.
Laura: I'm so nervous! What are our names?
Sam: Oh, shoot! I'm a nine. I didn't say, sorry.
Laura: You're above Caleb. Thanks for fucking up everyone's list.
Sam: Sorry. I'm nervous, guys!
Matt: That's all right. Top of the combat round, as the flames are crackling around, you hear screams from crewmen that are too close and having to pull back and someone starts shouting "Fire!" off to the side, from this side of the docks. Beau, you're up first. What are you doing?
Travis: I can see your pulse in your neck.
Marisha: Can you? I'm dying! I might be having a heart attack! Beau reaches around, and scuffles around to Caleb and goes: Give me the notebook! I'm sticking with the plan!
Sam: Okay!
Laura: Are you going to grab it from him?
Marisha: Yes! I'm going to grab it from you.
Liam: Okay. It's wedged into my belt. Yeah, okay.
Marisha: Then I look at Jester.
Travis: This is the most precarious Operation game ever.
Matt: Isn't it, though? That's fine. That'll work.
Marisha: I can't hold a movement, right?
Matt: No. Only an action.
Marisha: Was taking the book an action?
Matt: I'll say running up to him and then going, "Give me the book," him rummaging through it or you helping him rummage through and grab it? I'll consider that an action because that takes a few seconds to do. It's not something he had ready. You've moved 15 feet to get over there and then your action.
Marisha: How far away is Jester from me now?
Matt: Jester was right next to you when you started.
Marisha: I run back to Jester.
Matt: That's another 15 feet. That's 30 foot of your movement.
Marisha: I say  Let's get out of here.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. That finishes Beau's go. Avantika's up next.
Marisha: Oh, I could have done Patient Defense! I should have done it!
Travis: She can't see in here, I think.
Matt: She cannot see, but what she can do is Control Water.
Sam: Oh!
Matt: Seeing this flames happen, she (groans), pulls back, closes her eyes for a second, and raises her scarred hand where the sphere that she unlocked Uk'otoa with raised up. At that point, the water from the ocean begins to rise--
Liam: Counterspell.
Matt: All right. It's a 4th-level spell, so I need you to roll.
Liam: I know, and it's at disadvantage. (gasps)
Marisha: What did you get?!
Liam: I rolled a 14 and a 19! She fails!
Matt: She does! (cheering and laughter)
Travis: Look at the veins! Oh my god!
Sam: That was two weeks of tension being released.
Travis: Orgasms all under the table right now!
Matt: Holy shit! You watch as the ocean begins to swell upwards. Avantika raises her arm-- but you said the walls are opaque. Can you see through the walls?
Liam: Can I hear her go (arcane chanting)?
Matt: Make a perception check. (groaning)
Sam: This is a fair point.
Liam: Oh, natural 20 and a 16, plus perception-- The lowest roll was a 19.
Laura: I like that you don't know where your perception is right now.
Liam: I never do.
Matt: Yeah, it doesn't require you to have seen the person. You know the spell's happening, you know the direction of the person. You rolled a high enough perception. I'll allow it. As you hear her chanting beneath her breath and you hear the wave rising, you glance over in the direction and you, having an instinctual affinity with flames and fire, can barely see the darkened shape of her on the opposite side of the flames being warped by the light. Using that moment, you put your hand forward and release the destructive pattern of your Counterspell. With that, the swelling ocean splatters back down to the surface.
Travis: Oh my god. Now you can die happy.
Matt: As that happens you hear her go, "Merde!" and she begins to back up over to here onto the side and starts shouting, "Vera!" That's going to end her turn, because that was her action.
Travis: I wonder how many times she can do that.
Matt: Jester.
Laura: Okay. I remember we went to the Plank King and we took the path to get to him. How far away is the base of his mountain? His stairs?
Matt: From where you are right now? It's probably somewhere between 1200 and 1500 feet, maybe?
Laura: Okay. Can I get 500 feet on the path to there with Dimension Door? I grab Beau around the waist and say: Come with me! I cast Dimension Door. Ten feet above the ground. I say: Get ready to land! So I don't land on a person.
Marisha: So considerate of you.
Taliesin: Wow, this is a look.
Matt: Beau and Jester vanish from sight in a puff of purplish-pink smoke. They both are gone. That's your action.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You suddenly find yourself appearing in the center of the cobblestone street, with The Bloated Cup maybe about two or three blocks up that way on the familiar path you know that you took, hooking around the side that led you to the Throne Roost.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: You also do notice now that there are some folks and some of The Revelry watch that are now glancing over at the very bright inferno that is this beacon of flame over there in the shipyard. You appear out of nowhere and there's two of them that look over in your direction, noticing you appear. That's all. That's all that happens. You still have your movement and your bonus.
Laura: I'm going to start moving towards-- yeah? Okay. I start moving towards the Plank King.
Marisha: I'll catch up with you.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. That finishes Jester's go. Yasha's up.
Travis: Yasha. What is she doing again? Wow, my brain is so scrambled.
Taliesin: I know, it's hard to think right now.
Matt: You're down two party members in the middle of a U of flames.
Travis: Yeah. She's over here, right? Is this her? Okay.
Matt: That's two hours of online research about Control Water and Wall of Fire and interactions completely mute. That is awesome.
Liam: Good game.
Matt: Good game.
Travis: We're getting the fuck out, right?
Matt: What are you doing, Yasha?
Travis: Yasha is going to use her movement to run off. She would like to-- Is she raging?
Matt: If she doesn't make an attack and isn't attacked, she loses her rage.
Travis: She will use her movement to head towards the side of the ship and try to exit the craft, and let's see how far we get.
Matt: Okay. She scoots by the one guy who's currently-- so that'd be (counting) 35 right there.
Travis: And 40 is her speed.
Matt: So she can get there. As she swings by, the one guy that's currently in the wall of fire is like, "Shit!" He glances out of the corner of his eye and sees her go by and he gets one attack of opportunity swinging at her as she streaks through the space. That's going to be a 15 to hit.
Travis: Ugh, it hits.
Matt: Okay. In an errant backhand swing-- she's got meaty hit points, though. That's going to be eight points of slashing damage to Yasha as she rushes past.
Travis: Great. She will use her bonus action to rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yep. That will be her turn.
Matt: She's not going to do anything with her action? She can dash with her action and move again if you're trying to get her to move.
Travis: Oh yeah, double dash. Yeah, I'm sorry. A little frazzled.
Matt: 40. What's her movement?
Travis: 40 and bonus to rage.
Matt: All right. As she charges past, that guard sees her running and goes, "Wait!" There's a huge distraction now. This person here who saw all of a sudden the flames erupt who was part of Avantika's crew, one of the crew members, is going to take an attack of opportunity at her as well as she runs past. She is raging, though, so she takes half damage. Ooh, that's going to be a 21 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: She takes another eight damage, but it's reduced to four. That finishes Yasha's go. Caduceus, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. I just saw that we are running, apparently.
Matt: You see Yasha run past you. You look over and you watch as Beau and Jester (blink). They're gone.
Taliesin: Well, okay. Let's see. I'm going to follow Yasha, because that's apparently the way-- how much distance can I cover? How close to her can I get?
Matt: We'll find out. Movement 30 if you're rushing past her.
Taliesin: Is there an easier way off or is that the easiest way off the boat?
Matt: There are three ways off the boat. There's either this gangplank, which is closer to you, this gangplank, which is further from you but generally will meet the same distance, or jumping in the water.
Taliesin: Oh yeah. Whichever way gets me closer to her quickly.
Travis: You're such a fan of the water, though, Taliesin.
Taliesin: I'm learning.
Matt: (counting) 30 gets you halfway on the plank there.
Taliesin: Okay, I'll take that other 30 for now, then.
Matt: (counting) 30. You're right behind Yasha. That character does not get an attack of opportunity on you because they already used their reaction to hit Yasha.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to hold there for now.
Matt: Okay, that finishes your turn. Now it's Fjord. Aside from Avantika, the rest of them rolled piss-poor initiative, which is to your advantage.
Travis: Okay. Fjord is going to-- Am I standing right next to Caleb?
Matt: You are currently, yes. As far as Wall of Fire goes, I'm checking the damage on that, is that at the top of their turn?
Liam: Are you asking-- Oh you're asking me.
Matt: Oh, at the end of each turn.
Liam: If they end their turn or the first time it hits them...
Matt: First time they enter it. Got you, okay, good to know. So if they don't leave that area--
Liam: When it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.
Matt: Got you. All right, cool. Thank you.
Travis: I am going to use my movement to make sure that I walk up and put a hand on Caleb's shoulder. I'm going to hold Thunder Step until Nott moves.
Matt: You are going to begin casting Thunder Step...
Travis: But look at Nott and wait.
Matt: You're readying it as a spell?
Travis: Readying it as a spell, yeah. The second he moves--
Matt: To trigger the instant Nott moves. You've got it. Okay.
Liam: Moves or clears the--
Travis: If he moves, yeah.
Matt: Got you. He said moves. All right, that finishes your go, now it's Bouldergut's turn. Bouldergut, angry about the flames goes (angry groan). Looking aback, batting at them a little bit with her arm, goes and steps through the wall. She takes the damage again. Roll another 5d8. That is going to step into the space where the flames are no longer touching her and on the outside it's not burning.
Liam: 24 that time.
Matt: Yeah, they don't get a saving throw by walking through it. She takes your damage. What's the damage?
Liam: 24.
Matt: Bouldergut comes through singed. You see it as bits of her hair are curled up and red at the tips from where elements of it have turned to ember and takes a giant swing with her two-handed great club at you.
Liam: That's going to hit.
Matt: Yeah, that is. That's a 23 to hit.
Liam: Absolutely.
Matt: All right, so with that, that's 15 points of bludgeoning damage. Make a constitution save.
Liam: It's a ten right, because it's half.
Matt: It's half or ten, whichever is higher. So, constitution saving throw.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Matt: Only ability checks are at disadvantage, not saving throws.
Liam: Oh, saving throw? Well I rolled twice.
Matt: Just roll one more time.
Liam: Straight, because they were both pretty good. Natural 20. (relieved cheering)
Matt: Fantastic. She swings with her second attack. That is 19 to hit.
Liam: Hits, yeah.
Matt: That-- Ooh. 17 points of damage. Another DC10, make another constitution saving throw.
Liam: That's balls. That is just a seven.
Matt: The flames flicker out as your concentration is abruptly broken by the ogre that stepped through the fire wall and twice bashed-- Ford and Caleb right there.
Sam: All plans go wrong guys. It's okay, it's okay.
Marisha: It's, you know-- We anticipated this.
Sam: We've still got two clerics... somewhere in the world.
Matt: That ends Bouldergut's turn. Now that comes to Nott and Vera going at the same time in the same initiative count. You have a higher dexterity than Vera, so I'm letting you go first.
Sam: Nott is going to stick with the plan and run towards that gangplank and get out of dodge.
Matt: Five, ten, 15. You're triggering your...
Travis: Thunder Step.
Matt: Thunder Step. 15. Are you going down the gangplank?
Sam: Yeah, as soon as I crest it, when I get up there, they're gone by that point, right?
Matt: So, what do you do now? You do...
Travis: 3d10 damage and we--
Matt: In what radius?
Travis: Within ten feet.
Matt: Within ten feet? That will get Bouldergut. It won't get anybody else. After slamming her club twice into Caleb, you're holding his shoulder as the impact is causing him to nearly crumple against you. You lift him up under the arm right as the spell finishes and (thunder crack).
Travis: 18 points of thunder damage and Caleb and I will disappear and reappear 90 feet in the direction of the base of the hill.
Matt: You are over here. All right.
Sam: Who's still on the ship?
Matt: With a loud, heavy burst of thunder, impacts--
Sam: It's just me now, right?
Matt: Crackling through the air surrounding the shipyard. With that, both Caleb and Fjord vanish and reappear across the distance, landing on the creaking wood of the old rickety dock. Hearing the footsteps behind you of Caduceus and Yasha trying to catch up, the guard all looking confused at what's transpiring, and a little ways down the way you can see there's about five or six other guards that are walking alongside the rest of the crew of The Mistake that are all stopping and seeing what's going on here. That's the end of your go. You still have 15 feet of movement.
Sam: Yeah, I will-- Nott will continue to run down that-- Sorry, no. She gets to the top of the gangplank, she's going to turn around and nail Vera with a bolt.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's so punk rock.
Matt: Roll for an attack.
Sam: I don't think it's sneak attack or anything.
Matt: It's not.
Sam: It's only a 12. No, 14 to hit.
Matt: 14? You needed a 15. Yeah, that Mage Armor manages to deflect it.
Sam: All right, well then I'll just keep running down the plank and then use bonus action to dash another 30 feet.
Matt: All right, you're right before Yasha. With that, Vera is going to take her turn. Vera steps up the side (counting) 30 and is now up on the top of the ship glancing over as everyone charges past. She raises her arm, "Come, great serpent of the sea!" and she raises her hand above and brings her fingers together into a fist as she brings it down slowly like there's force against her fist. You watch as this white cloud begins to appear and hailstone-like shards of ice begin to pelt down onto the dock below into this radius right here. It does manage to get the guard as well.
Taliesin: I was going to say, they're going to hit the guard.
Marisha: Good. Going to piss that guard off.
Matt: What that does is it also turns this area into rough terrain until the end of her next turn. He is there. You guys are all here.
Liam: Does the cloud remain in the sky?
Matt: The cloud has vanished now.
Liam: Okay, so it was a one time.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: However, I need you all to make... Here we go. It's an Ice Storm spell. Dexterity saving throw from the three of you please. If you don't mind.
Sam: 19 for me.
Matt: Success for you.
Taliesin: 20 for me.
Matt: Success for you, and roll for Yasha as well if you don't mind.
Travis: What am I rolling?
All: Dexterity save.
Travis: She gets advantage on those.
Sam: I've never seen Travis this nervous before.
Travis: I'm so flustered.
Taliesin: My heart is fucking racing right now. I am not okay.
Travis: That's 11 for Yasha.
Matt: Yasha fails. Yasha takes 22 points of cold damage. That's 11 points to Caduceus and Nott. Although none to you because you succeeded and you have evasion, so you take none.
Sam: Is that how that works? Wow, cool!
Matt: That's what rogues can do! Yeah, whenever you have to make a dex save against an effect, take half damage. If you succeed, you take no damage. If you fail, you take half. You should read your character sheet.
Travis: Can I do fanatical focus?
Matt: Yes you may.
Travis: I'm going to do the fanatical focus once per day.
Matt: So you get to re-roll that. Once.
Travis: 19 plus two is 21.
Matt: Okay, so she only takes 11. However everything in this, for the next round, is difficult terrain as there's now giant hailstones and sleet slicked all over the rickety docks.
Sam: Is it half movement?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: That's going to end Vera's go. Now it comes to Caleb.
Liam: Oh yeah, okay.
Matt: Hanging over here on the side.
Liam: Are there any crates or anything around on the dock that look lift-able from Catapult?
Matt: There are two chests off to the side there.
Liam: Okay, if they look light enough, I will throw one up into the air at Avantika's head.
Matt: Okay, go for the roll on that.
Sam: Throw ice?
Matt: He's throwing one of the chests over here.
Sam: Oh, one of the chests.
Liam: No. I am going instead to cast Expeditious Retreat on myself and at the same time change the focus on my transmuter stone to a constitution buff. That's it. I'm going to jet back 90 feet.
Sam: 90 feet?!
Matt: You dart forward across-- the guards that are there watching this happen with the rest of the crew of The Mistake, you zip past them in this blur, Flash-like entity. They all get pushed back from the impact as you push through. All right. That finishes your turn. Now it's the guards. The guards--
Taliesin: Did that guard take damage?
Matt: That guard did take damage.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He's looking real rough. He's going to back up out of the middle of the sleet and make his way this way. He looks dazed and is trying to figure out what's going on and where to ally himself with. You guys go running off the side as the flames are down. They're going to give chase. This guard's going to rush up here and this guy's going to rush up here. They're not attacking, but they're coming out towards you and saying, "Stop! Stop! Halt!" They're shouting towards you guys to stop. The rest of the guards are going to push forward and start making their way up this direction and they're starting to-- They're now catching up. Four of them are going up towards Fjord and one of them is going back towards Caleb. They're starting to gather and they're putting up their hands like: do not flee. They're not talking yet, but you see their physicality is like, we don't know what's happening but don't you go anywhere.
Travis: Yeah, no, I wouldn't dream of it.
Matt: That ends their go. It's now Ipess' turn. As a bonus action, he's going to hide and move underneath and around the rocks to this side and he's going to pull around from the corner with his hand crossbow and take a shot at Caduceus from behind. Caduceus, what's your passive perception?
Taliesin: My passive perception is 18.
Matt: 18, okay. You do notice him out of the corner of your eye just barely, so he is not hidden from you. This means he does not get sneak attack damage or advantage on the attack. That is still a natural 20 on this hit.
Taliesin: Is he within 30 feet of me? Wait, no! I can cast this on myself, can't I?
Matt: Which one?
Taliesin: Can I cast-- Let me take a look really quick if I can do this. Sentinel. Can I cast Sentinel on myself?
Matt: What does it say? What's the wording?
Taliesin: As a reaction, when you or a creature you can see within 30 feet--
Matt: When you or a creature?
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Matt: Then yeah!
Taliesin: So none of that.
Matt: You channel divinity to prevent the critical. It is now a regular hit. Fantastic. You take three points of piercing damage. It sticks into your shield and grinds inside and actually hits a little bit of the forearm, but you manage to deflect most of the impact and bolt gets caught in the center of there, mostly no damage to you.
Taliesin: (nervous laugh) Cool.
Matt: One of the guards turns and looks towards Ipess-- Actually both of these guards turn and glance over and having this moment of not entirely certain which side to go with.
Taliesin: I am looking irritated at the guards at this.
Matt: That ends there. It's now the rest of the crew's turn. He's going to come to the side there, this one's going to move over to this side there, this guy's going to run across, this one's going to move over here, and this half orc's going to go and hide in there.
Sam: Don't forget our crow's nest guy.
Matt: With that, we've got some heavy crossbow action from this guy and this guy. Caleb is out of range of both of them unfortunately. Both of these guys right here, I'm going to roll four attacks. One of them is going to be heavy crossbow to Fjord, because Fjord is still within-- Oh no, it's a 400-foot range for the next one.
Sam: 400 feet?!
Matt: Yeah, heavy crossbow. With 100 feet, you're going to be within the disadvantage range increment but those things are going to fire at you, Caleb. Since you're the one that's the furthest away.
Taliesin: Caleb is not within 30 feet of me either, is he?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Just checking.
Matt: He does have disadvantage on the attack though. That is a 16 and a 13 naturally.
Liam: It hits.
Matt: Plus four, it's going to be 17.
Liam: My AC is 11.
Laura: Whoa, that's really low.
Matt: That is nine points of piercing damage to you.
Liam: Oh, I have nine hit points.
Matt: Are you serious?
Liam: Yeah. I'm out.
Matt: Caleb (thud). As he darts past, this bolt streaks past, (impact noise) in the back and with the momentum of his running, he crumples into the ground and tumbles and skids to a halt in the middle-- You're watching this, Fjord, as this happens. The other one up here at the top of the crow's nest, is going to take a shot at Nott, actually. You are within the 100-foot range. That's still a natural two, so it misses you. It splinters the wood right next to your foot as you step out of the way. Shards of wood go flying from the impact and the heavy bolt, about that long, is jammed at an angle into the planks before you. This one here and this one are both going to take heavy crossbow shots. One's at Caduceus and one's at Yasha, so the most visible. Against Caduceus-- oh, man, they're rolling terrible now. That's a six.
Taliesin: I'm not even going to dignify that.
Matt: Yeah. Yasha, however, does get hit with a 17, I believe. Right?
Taliesin: Travis? Yes.
Travis: What, sorry?
Matt: Yasha takes eight points of piercing damage. 17 to hit, eight points reduced to four.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: This guy here has a hand crossbow. You are then in disadvantage range. He's going to take another shot at Caduceus with disadvantage. No, that's another six.
Taliesin: He ain't going to be hitting me.
Matt: Okay, that's the end of the crewmen there. That's the end of the combat round. These people, seeing all the fighting, are going to duck into their ship and hide. This team on this end, they all move out of the way but they're keeping an eye, over the side, of what's happening. Top of the combat round: Beau and Jester. You appear, Beau, in the middle of this chaos. Flames behind you. You hear a thunderous blast, that echoes from behind. You glance over, you look forward, Jester's already running in the direction. You're on the rough and tumble rock and elements of cobblestone that have long worn off and not been replaced. In front of you, a little ways up ahead, you can see the tavern.
Marisha: The tavern?
Matt: The Bloated Cup.
Marisha: I want to go around and I want to go straight towards the Plank King.
Matt: Okay, so you full run?
Marisha: I go  Jester, I'll see you there! I dart by, and I also want to burn a ki point to do Step of the Wind and run my full 135-foot movement towards--
Matt: In doing so, you make it all the way up. The street's there, and there's buildings on each side. To the front right of you--this perspective for you on this side is where you see the tavern. There are folks out there morning drinking, like, "Whoa." Watch you whiz past. You make your way up the street a little further and there are a few town guards that are looking over towards the inn, the sound, and all the craziness happening, and they notice you approaching and they all instinctively begin to go into a phalanx. They all go shoulder-to-shoulder and they're now blocking off the road from your continual passage. No weapons drawn, but in the midst of all this, they see crazy stuff happening and the one person darting at an inhuman speed away from it, and their instinct is to go, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, let's figure this out." They're not aggressive yet. That's your turn?
Marisha: Can I say anything?
Matt: I'd say this happens at the very end of your turn. You're running, running, running, all of a sudden you stop right as they (clanking) right there in front of you. We'll pick that up next turn.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That brings us to Avantika's go. All right. Oh, man. Okay. Avantika is going to leap down off the side of the ship. Acrobatics check.
Travis: And slip on the ice.
Matt: No, it's just difficult terrain.
Travis: Just kidding. Wishful thinking!
Matt: I will say, it would increase the DC for her landing, I'll give you that. But she did roll an 18 on her acrobatics check.
Travis: Yeah, that's pretty good.
Matt: Leaping down, lands right in front of Nott. Skids down, lands a few inches back before coming to a stop. The ice grinds at the back of her foot and creates this little pile where the momentum eventually stops, holding her rapier in one hand and the dagger in the other, looking down at you, Nott, goes, "Ah, you should not have crossed me." She's going to take three strikes at you, two with her rapier and one with her dagger. The dagger, you can see now, is-- You've seen it a little bit in the battles. You were in dark spaces so it was hard to make a real, distinguishing visual of it, but out here in the open air, as she's clutching the dagger aggressively, there's a faint black energy faintly drifting off the edge of the blade. The attack with the rapier, first one-- natural four, no, it's going to miss you. Natural three. Both rapier shots, nothing. The dagger, however, that's going to be a 17 to hit.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Okay. She's rolling real bad. As the two rapier shots, you dodge out of the way, but she uses that to feint forward and jam the blade up into the front of your stomach and rib cage area. That is going to be nine points of piercing damage and an additional eight points of necrotic damage.
Sam: Uncanny dodge!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Does that halve both of those?
Matt: Yeah, it would halve both from the attack, so take eight points of damage. You manage to push away with your momentum, the blade doesn't sink quite as deep, and you, grabbing the wrist preventing it from really coming to the hilt in your chest, you pull away. That's going to end her turn. She shouts over her shoulder and goes, "Vera, we need friends!" Jester, your turn.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You saw Beauregard dart up past you.
Laura: Is there an alley near me?
Matt: If you look a little bit ahead of you, around each of the buildings that are right in front of you, there are alleys that curve around that would eventually meet in the road that you guys are currently running down.
Laura: Anywhere where I can duck and cast Disguise Self really fast?
Matt: Yes, but you'd have to move up. You probably wouldn't be able to get to an alley to do it this turn. There are people around. There are folks that are watching all this chaos happen off in the distance.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to shout  Avantika is attacking people on the island! She's trying to upstage the Plank King! Everybody go see now!
Matt: Okay, make a deception check.
Marisha: Can the guards that I'm near hear her?
Matt: You're a little ways up. I'll roll a perception check for them, how about that?
Laura: 14?
Matt: That's a cocked roll. The guards unfortunately do not hear it. They're not as perceptive and their focus is distracted between this, and they hear shouting, but they're not picking up the words. However, some of the folks nearby glance over at you and go, "Oh, shit, really?" Finishes his drink real fast.
Laura: Spread the word!
Matt: "I've got to go see this!" They seem less worried about their lives and more like, "Oh, I want to go see how this goes down."
Liam: Vanna's going on a prank binge!
Marisha: Fight, fight, fight!
Laura: Right, right. Is anybody around me now?
Matt: They're not around. In front of you there's one coming out of a building and you see a couple folks that are on the front porch entrance area of the tavern.
Laura: I don't know if I want to run back or help Beau!
Matt: It's up to you. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to head back to the group. I'm going to start running towards the group.
Matt: Okay. Jester, you turn around and start heading back towards the group. It's a long run because you went 500 feet from the ship.
Laura: I know. I'm going to duck into an alley as soon as it's near so I can cast Disguise Self on my next turn.
Matt: You go for it. That finishes your go. Yasha's up.
Travis: Yeah, Yasha's up. She is going to make two attacks against Avantika. She'll move into melee with her and will make them both reckless attacks.
Matt: She's going to use her reaction to parry, which adds a plus two to her armor class.
Travis: That's a 17 to hit.
Matt: That misses.
Travis: Good to know. These are terrible rolls. That's a 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Sam: Take her head off, Yasha!
Travis: 14 points of damage.
Matt: 14 points of damage to Avantika. As the blade carves through, she tries to parry it with the rapier, but it slips down and carves a slight bit off of her forearm before it gleans off, and you can see a little bit of red immediately exposed where the cloth was carved through, and a little bit of the skin and flesh removed with it.
Travis: She will use the rest of her movement to keep running up the dock.
Matt: Okay, that's going to be (counting) 40. That's as far as she can get.
Travis: Right, because it's fucking shitty terrain.
Matt: Difficult terrain, yep.
Travis: Does she have anything that keeps her from--?
Marisha: Dealing with that?
Travis: Like angel of death problem? No?
Matt: As an action you can angel of death.
Marisha: Wings on ice?
Matt: They're more for the surprise party factor than the actual flight thing.
Travis: Nope, I don't see anything.
Matt: Okay, that finishes Yasha's go. Caduceus, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh, man, wow, I am really stuck on that, aren't I? That's irritating.
Matt: There's the guards there. There's Avantika. Avantika does not have a reaction; she already used it to parry.
Taliesin: That's difficult terrain, though, so if I burn my action I'm only going to get 30 feet.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Hmm. Let's get weird. Okay.
Travis: Yeah, let's! Let's do it!
Liam: Get weird, Taliesin, get weird!
Sam: I'm going to make all the ice turn into bugs.
Taliesin: I'm going to vanish. That's the first thing I'm going to do.
Matt: I'll say for the purposes of keeping tabs on you, this will be your marker.
Sam: Ooh, cool marker!
Marisha: See-through Caduceus.
Taliesin: There's a joke there that I cannot think of what it is because I'm too freaked out. I can cast while I'm invisible, correct?
Matt: No, it's your ability. As soon as you cast something, you lose your invisibility.
Taliesin: Well, the invisibility only lasts one round.
Matt: Actually, let me check the wording on that, if it's different from the actual spell, because usually it's--
Taliesin: Not a big deal.
Liam: This encounter's getting to me. My body is radiating heat. I'm hot everywhere. Flames! On the side of my face!
Matt: "Can magically turn invisible until the start of your next turn or until you attack, make a damage roll, or force someone to make a saving throw." You can cast a spell as long as it doesn't damage or attack somebody.
Taliesin: As long as it's not a damage spell, I can just--
Matt: Or force someone to make a saving throw.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. Yeah, I'll just ignore that, then. I'll stay invisible and I'm going to try and take my 60 feet.
Matt: It would be 30 feet with this.
Taliesin: Yeah, my 30.
Matt: (counting)
Taliesin: Can I get one further away, just to--
Matt: You can go at an angle in front of Yasha.
Taliesin: Yeah, just to get a little cover. Thank you!
Matt: That ends your go, Caduceus. Fjord, you're up. Your friends are catching up behind you, there's a sleet storm slamming, there's guards swarming around your direction telling you to halt, and up ahead of you you watched a speedy Caleb grind into the ground. What are you doing?
Travis: We're going to get weird, right? All right.
Marisha: Getting weird.
Travis: I'll look up and point above the stern of the ship where Vera is, and my eyes will roll back and I'll say: (deep voice) Barlgura, and I will Summon Greater Demon.
Sam: What?
Travis: I'm going to drop a barlgura right on Vera's fucking head.
Liam: That was a sick description!
Taliesin: I have never been so proud.
Liam: That was like Babe Ruth summoning a demon from hell.
Matt: I wasn't sure if you had taken this spell. I prepared for it just in case.
Sam: What is that?
Matt: This is it!
All: Whoa!
Laura: Bouldergut has met her love. They start making out.
Matt: You'd be just on the edge of the ship there.
Travis: That's great. I want him right in their fucking business.
Sam: If you walk away, does he stay there?
Travis: I only command him for one round, and on that command I will say: Fuck up that crew.
Matt: With the dark speech that emanates from inside of Fjord's body, it echoes out like a weird, discordant harmony of several voices you've never heard. For those that are present. You guys are way the fuck away.
Travis: Fuck up that crew, fuck up that crew, fuck up that crew!
Matt: There's the sound of reality cracking and you look up and watch where, in the center of the sky there, at the very edge of The Squalleater's deck, two large, meaty hands pull open this barrier between the realms, and stepping out you see this large, gorilla-like demon covered in fur and horns at the edge, these giant fists, with tusks that emerge from beneath this chin and these red, burning, coal-like eyes. As it steps out, it turns right towards Vera, whose eyes are wide, and (roars) in her face. You watch her hair get blown back a bit, spittle across her chin. That's your action.
Travis: With my bonus action I'll turn to the guards and go: Avantika's not to be trusted. I will Misty Step with my bonus action.
Matt: All right, you manage to Misty Step.
Travis: 30 feet. Towards the direction of out. The fuck out.
Matt: Okay. This puts you--
Travis: Anywhere near Caleb?
Liam: 60 feet from Caleb at this point. I was 90 feet from Fjord.
Matt: Correct. You went 30 feet forward and you still have your movement.
Travis: I'll use the rest of my-- yeah I knew that, I'm planning for that, yeah. I'll use the rest of my 30 feet to run towards that unconscious wizard.
Matt: Okay, so you go heading towards Caleb. After shouting, "Avantika's not to be trusted" after summoning a fucking demon, I'm going to ask you to make a persuasion check with disadvantage. Because you just summoned a fucking demon.
Laura: Creepily. Very creepily.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, god. Oh, god. (groaning)
Travis: Six.
Matt: All right. Well, they seem to be more focused on what just appeared through the scar in reality you left. All right, so you charge past. You're coming upon the group of guards now that are around the rest of the crew of the Mistake, but they've forgotten about that crew at that point. They saw Caleb rush past. Two of them went over to figure out what the hell happened as he basically darted-- football fumbled off to the side. The others are turning and coming towards your direction, but it's not their turn yet.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, that finishes your go, Fjord. It is now Bouldergut's go.
Travis: Do I roll initiative for the barlgura?
Matt: You do, yes.
Travis: Oh, that's a 17 plus-- I don't know if there's any bonus. Maybe it's a 17.
Liam: Dex bonus?
Travis: Dex plus two. So 19?
Matt: 19, right after Avantika.
Travis: Okay. Good puppy.
Matt: Oh, man.
Travis: (nervous laughter and noises)
Liam: (Bane impression) Your punishment will be more severe.
Laura: It doesn't get to go as soon as you summon it?
Travis: I don't-- It says it gets its own initiative.
Matt: Correct. When you summon it, on each of its turns thereafter, you issue a verbal command to it, so you can keep issuing commands every turn. However, it doesn't go until its next initiative. All right. That's real interesting.
Travis: Uh huh.
Liam: This is fucking chaos.
Matt: So, Bouldergut's going to move. (counting) I'm going to make a saving throw for the now partially-damaged-- okay, yeah, that's fine.
Travis: The plank?
Matt: The plank is going to snap. Gets her about there, and is going do the dash up here. The next two guards who were now focused on Bouldergut coming forward, and they're not entirely certain what's happening. They're focused on the demon. There's weirdness from all sides. It seems the watch are not used to this chaos breaking this far in towards Darktow. Usually, the reef and the defenses they built around the reef are enough to keep things like this far from the island. That finishes Bouldergut's turn. That brings us to Nott and Vera, but Nott, you get to go first.
Sam: I will run full speed through the difficult terrain. How far can I get?
Matt: (counting) You're next to Yasha with your movement.
Sam: Okay. Then bonus, another--
Matt: (counting) 25, 30.
Sam: Now I'm right in front of these guards?
Matt: You are, and you still have your bonus action.
Sam: I used movement and bonus action to move, and I'll use action to-- (whispering) shit, who do I fuck up? (laughter) There's no one engaged with anyone, so there's no one I can do sneak attack to. Instead, I'll do a Hail Mary. I'll take out a bit of fleece, and rub it, and speak some words, and cast Phantasmal Force on Avantika.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: She'll probably save, but it's worth a shot.
Matt: What's the save?
Sam: 14. Intelligence. She's smart.
Travis: Roll low, roll low.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: Natural five.
Travis: Ooh! What's her modifier though?
Matt: She's very good at a few things, but she doesn't have the highest intelligence to get to that point.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: She's smart, but not that smart.
Marisha: She went to public school!
Matt: I went to public school.
Marisha: So did I. (laughter)
Marisha: We all have average intelligence, let's be real.
Sam: As Bouldergut is walking over, holding a pick, or what?
Matt: It's a giant-- it looks like it once was a mast of a ship that's been whittled down into a greatclub.
Sam: I want Avantika to see Bouldergut doing this and holding up the book. Holding up the book and waving it around. She's definitely holding that book.
Matt: Okay. All right. Avantika glances over and (sigh). For a moment, you see a look of relief come over Avantika's face.
Sam: All right.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn?
Sam: Yes, that's it.
Matt: You got it. Now, it's Vera's turn. Vera, seeing this happen-- Oh man.
Marisha: But she believes it now. How long does she believe it for?
Sam: A minute.
Liam: Anything that keeps her occupied for one round, but still.
Marisha: Okay, okay. A lot can happen in 60 seconds.
Matt: All right. Vera's going to glance off to the side-- Actually, she's going to try to move out of melee of this barlgura.
Taliesin: Attack of opportunity?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, yeah.
Matt: So, make a strike.
Travis: Okay. That is only a nine. Wait, that's a nine.
Matt: Nine misses.
Marisha: Nine.
Matt: As the giant demon swings outward, it impacts and deflects off the energy field of Mage Armor that pushes it off to the side. Vera steps back. The reach on that is five foot, right? For the attack? Just making sure.
Travis: Yes, five feet.
Matt: Okay, she pulls out of it and goes (harsh sigh). Looks down at Avantika, looks down at all the guards that are gathering as they're moving in. (music plays)
Matt: Just barely from that angle there.
Taliesin: Fuck, man.
Matt: Yeah, that does it. All right, she goes, after hearing what Avantika said, goes, "Everyone, they have crossed Darktow! Take them to the Plank King!" You watch as she's saying these words, her hand sends this strange series of symbols through, and casts Mass Suggestion on the guards in the vicinity of 60 feet of her.
Travis: Mass? Mass Suggestion?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's new for me.
Taliesin: Being taken to the Plank King ain't bad.
Matt: Fail. Fail. Fail. It's working out great. It's like, two, seven, four, three. Ten, fail. Natural one.
Taliesin: Do they even know who the Plank King is?
Matt: All of them failed. You watch as all of these guards have the confusion suddenly crystalizes, and all of them look towards your group and start shouting, "Stop them! They're thieves!"
Travis: Oh, fuck. (stammers) We're thieves?
Marisha: They all failed their save. He thinks that we're the bad guys now.
Sam: (whispering) We are, kind of. (laughter)
Matt: Vera, after casting that, is going to use the rest of her movement. (counting) Oh, god.
Liam: She's dead. Oh, no, she passed out.
Matt: I'll put her there, it's fine. All right, that ends Vera's turn. Caleb, for your turn, make a death save. It's the beginning of your round. I keep forgetting it's the beginning of your turn, in case you roll a natural 20.
Liam: That is-- these dice-- That's a 17.
Matt: Cool. That's one success.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Deez dice.
Matt: At the end of Vera's turn, this goes away.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Yeah, which sucks for us, and now they can get to us faster.
Matt: The sleet and stuff has now melted and dripped off the sides. These guards here--
Liam: (guard impression) "What's all this, then?"
Matt: (counting) 30 on each side, and they're both going to attempt to grapple Yasha. Go ahead and make an athletics check for her. She has advantage because she is raging.
Travis: Okay. That's 24. 21.
Matt: Yeah, one guy fails to grapple. Then the other guy's going to attempt to-- Make another check. She has to beat a 16.
Travis: 12, and that's a 21.
Matt: Yeah, they just can't-- they try and grab her, and she shrugs them off, no problem. These other guards here begin to swarm up to try and grab Nott. This one's going to move up and try and grab Yasha. This one here is going to-- He tries to move forward towards Yasha, and ends up chest-bumping space in the middle of the air, and confusedly is going to try and grapple whatever's there. He has disadvantage on that, so first, I'm going to do that with you. Rolled really well with disadvantage, natural 19 and a natural 17. Make an acrobatics or athletics check to see if he doesn't grapple you.
Taliesin: Acrobatics or athletics? Those are both terrible, okay.
Sam: You're a big thing.
Taliesin: I'm a big thing. A 20 is what I rolled. I rolled a 19 plus one, so I'm going to do an acrobatics run.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: I am, to be fair, invisible. It's hard to grab.
Matt: No, no, no! He tries to grab you, and he gets ahold of you, and you push him off, and he looks really confused. He grabbed something before he really knew what was happening, and is really confused. For a moment, he thinks it was a ghost.
Liam: Nothing but sparkle pony fur.
Matt: For the one that rushed up to try to grab Yasha again because the other guys failed, ooh, natural 18. So, roll for her. It's going to be a 20.
Travis: 16.
Matt: She is currently grappled by this guy. He's now grabbed and is holding her in place. She's (grunting). The two other guys are going to try to dogpile in to try to stop her from moving. We have three attempting to grapple you, Nott.
Sam: Three?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: You're tiny. You're dexy.
Sam: Sure, sure. Here we go.
Marisha: Slippy.
Matt: All right, so first guy--
Sam: Do they roll? Do I roll?
Matt: You roll an acrobatics check against them.
Sam: 15.
Matt: That's a success. Next guy, natural 20.
Laura: Oh, no.
Matt: That's 22.
Sam: Natural 20. (surprised laughter)
Taliesin: What the fuck is happening?
Matt: Oh, my god. All right, all right. So, he manages to actually grab-- The first one, you're just too slippery. "Oh, god!" You turn on the side. The other guy grabs you. Right as he squeezes, you just jump out of it, land on his arms, and then step off. The third one's going to try and grab you. That's a six. Go and roll.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Okay, you still manage to slip away. None of them can grab you. You're too fast! Tiny goblin form! "Quick! Nab her!" You're jumping around, darting around, squeezing out of the way. No impact. All right, that finishes the guards' turn. Ipess is going to (counting) try to hide at the top of it. Ooh, natural 20. So, he's going to scoot up around the side, dart off the edge. He's going to make a shot at the barlgura, who has shown up. With advantage, that is going to be a 19 to hit. What's its armor class?
Travis: 15.
Matt: Okay. He does get sneak attack damage against it.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That's an additional 2d6, so...
Sam: Does this thing have a name?
Travis: Barlgura. It has a demon name.
Sam: Which is what?
Matt: 14 points of piercing damage. Does it have any resistances?
Travis: It does. It has damage resistance to cold, fire, and lightning. Damage immunity to poison... yeah.
Matt: Damage immunity to poison. That's all?
Travis: Condition immunities  poison.
Matt: Got it. No immunities to non-magical weapons?
Travis: No.
Matt: Okay, just making sure. All right, yeah, so it takes full damage on that. Mark that.
Travis: 14, right?
Matt: Yeah. That's going to end Ipess's turn. Now it's the crew's turn. This one's going to make a step back, trying to get out of range of the barlgura. It already used its reaction to do an attack. It's going to reload and fire with its crossbow against it. Ooh, that's going to be a 17 to hit?
Travis: 17 hits.
Matt: All right. It suffers eight points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: These guys here are going to fire down after reloading. They're now focusing on the giant demon. They're not focusing on you guys, so.
Sam: That's great!
Matt: They're turning like, "Oh, Jesus!"
Taliesin: You are tanking. This is a tank. This is a good tank.
Matt: He's going to move over here, and attempt to fire at it from there. This one's going to stand where he is and reload. These guys are going to spin around and focus on this terrible creature. All right. This guy here is going to stay behind. That's (counting) six shots against the barlgura.
Travis: Six shots. Oh, fuck.
Matt: So, all right. 18 to hit?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: One point of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Nine to hit.
Travis: Yes. Oh, no, misses, sorry.
Matt: All right. Seven to hit.
Travis: Misses. Three more.
Matt: 18 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Nine points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 16 to hit.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Seven points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The last one is 14 to hit.
Travis: Misses. Yeah, misses. Armor class 15.
Matt: That finishes the crew's go as they're all laying into this demon that appeared on there. You watch as (growl) as it turns back to yell, all of a sudden it gets another bolt in the chest and in the side. It's getting all of these bolts that are now sticking out of its body as it's raging angrily on the deck of the ship. You can see now there's a giant, burned U on the side. It wasn't around long enough to catch the ship on fire, but there is a dark scarring on the base of the deck there. All right. One more round, and it would've caught fire.
Liam: FYI, if I'd stayed conscious, I would've thrown a Fireball at that boat.
Matt: (laughter) That would've been great!
Liam: That was my next move.
Matt: Oh, man. All right, that ends. Top of the round. All right, so, Beau. The guards are there in front of you right now. There's three of them shoulder to shoulder, and there's one of them that looks-- the one in the center is a little better-armored. They go, "Hey, Miss, Miss, where are you going?" They're looking at you and both looking at what's over there.
Marisha: I have requested evidence for the Plank King. He wants to see me directly. It's Avantika. There's a coup. She's trying to take over the city with a demon god.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Come on, Beau!
Marisha: Not deception?
Matt: No, because it's honest.
Marisha: Persuasion's not my best.
Matt: There was nothing about that statement that was incorrect.
Marisha: Okay! 13? Above average?
Matt: You're not sure if he believes you, but he's not aggressive, if that makes sense. He goes, "Well, be that as it may, we need to figure out what's happening before we can have you running so quickly with intent."
Marisha: Time is of the essence. They're killing pirates who do not bend the knee to her. I've got to get to him now. Let me pass!
Matt: "We'll send for him. Stay here," and the two other guards stay there, and hold the position and fill in the space. He turns around and starts making his way towards the Throne Roost.
Marisha: Let me come with you!
Matt: He goes, "Ah! I've got it," and he continues walking.
Sam: Kill the guards.
Matt: We'll say that you've used an action at this point. You still have your bonus and your movement, if you want to use it.
Travis: Bathe in their blood. No, no!
Matt: It's up to you. You can go along with it and stay there and wait for your friends, or anything else you want to try. They are not aggressive at this point; they're just holding the line.
Sam: You've got a big stick.
Laura: Do not attack them!
Liam: Sam Riegel, shut the fuck up!
Marisha: I... wait.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: The tension in your body is rising up, and for a second, the muscles bulge and the veins begin to pop from the sheer amount of adrenaline that's in your system and your urge to charge through. You just breathe heavily as your entire form sinks into it. The two guards, you can see their tension, as their hands were going for a weapon, drop. They both go into a watching but waiting pose. That ends your go.
Liam: With great power.
Matt: It's now Avantika's turn. Avantika sees the guards shifting their allegiance under the effect of this Mass Suggestion spell. She's going to turn and attempt to go after Yasha.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What?
Liam: I'm angry at the villain; that's what I'm supposed to be!
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: You're doing great, everything is fantastic, I'm having a wonderful time!
Travis: I'm having a wonderful time!
Liam: My ears are going to combust!
Matt: Good. She's making three strikes against her, because she's the one closest to it. Yeah, she's not too hurt. She's not doing anything defensively. Or, you know what?
Marisha: It's so tempting. I'm so tempted to just bust through there.
Liam: It's so in character.
Matt: No, Yasha's being held. As far as she knows, Yasha is doing okay, or the guards have her. Nott is the one that keeps darting around, so she's going to raise a hand and cast Eldritch Blast at Nott.
Sam: Eldritch Blast.
Matt: Ooh, that's 24 to hit.
Sam: That'll hit.
Matt: You take three points of force damage. As you're jumping off, suddenly you get hit across the chin, but it's a glancing blow and your world goes a little dizzy for a second. The second one misses entirely.
Sam: You said three points, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh. Okay. That's not as bad as I was preparing for.
Matt: She didn't roll very good on the damage.
Travis: Does a grapple count towards keeping rage up? Is it an attack?
Matt: Technically a grapple is an attack, yeah. She's going to use her movement to back up five, six, going towards this, backing up towards the ship.
Travis: She was not in melee with Yasha, right?
Matt: Correct. Instead of doing that, she stayed back to do that and is now looking up towards the demon that is raging onto the base of the ship. Seeing the guards have got this under the Suggestion spell, she seems to be backing off slightly. That's going to finish Avantika's go. Now it's the barlgura's turn.
Travis: It is. The barlgura is going to use its running leap to jump right on Vera.
Matt: Oh-ho-ho!
Marisha: Hot.
Travis: It will unleash three attacks, one with its bite and two with its fists, and they will all be reckless.
Matt: Because it can do that?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: It's still alive. This is the first bite. That's an 18. That's a 12, so the 18 plus seven. 25 to hit?
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Roll damage on that one.
Travis: Okay, and I'm throwing shit, no problem.
Marisha: Bling! Bling, bling, bling!
Travis: That's 12 points of piercing damage for the bite.
Matt: Okay, good to know. She does succeed on her constitution save with a natural 16. She does every time she takes damage to see if she can maintain her Mass Suggestion.
Travis: Gotcha.
Laura: Oh, right
Travis: 18, 12. For the fist attack, that's 23 to hit?
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: A 1d10. That's a one, plus five, that's five points of bludgeoning damage.
Matt: One plus five is six.
Laura: One plus five is six.
Travis: Yeah, that.
Matt: All right. Natural 12, succeeds on the save.
Travis: Succeeds?
Marisha: (chanting) Public school!
Travis: Shit, all right.
Matt: Her con bonus isn't that high, so it's just a straight roll on the d20.
Travis: That's a 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 does hit. All three hit.
Travis: Fucking shit! Six points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Fucking balls! Get rid of that fucking dice.
Sam: Lot of fucks from the Willingham family.
Matt: That's a natural ten, just barely makes it. Does not drop concentration. But took some hits. Vera's looking a little roughed up and scared as shit. She runs down the stairs and turns around and sees this thing. (roars) It starts roughing her up. She's thrown against the back, is pummeled into the side of the ship and is trying desperately to look for a way to escape.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That ends the barlgura's turn. I need you to take a charisma saving throw for it.
Marisha: You have to stay far away from Winston.
Taliesin: Wow. Really? Now? Really?
Travis: That's a natural one-- No, that's a two minus one.
Liam: So an unnatural one.
Travis: So I lose the ability to control it.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: And it attacks the nearest non-demon thing for six rounds.
Matt: Correct, and then it returns to its home plane.
Travis: Disappears.
Liam: Six rounds.
Travis: Dis-ta-peels
Laura: Dis-ta-peels
Taliesin: So that's fine.
Liam: That's fine. Six rounds of carnage.
Travis: That was a great idea.
Taliesin: This is six rounds of, "Well, that's okay."
Travis: Yeah. I was like  I don't know if this will ever be-- That could work.
Matt: Well, no, you haven't lost concentration on it yet. It stays for the hour, but then once you lose concentration, roll a d6 to see how many more rounds it stays.
Travis: I understand. I thought it was different.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Thank you for that clarification.
Matt: No worries. That ends the barlgura's turn. Jester, you're up.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You've ducked to the side. You've cast Disguise Self on yourself.
Laura: To look like a pirate.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to--
Matt: Like a pirate.
Laura: Like a pirate.
Laura: I'm going to walk out and start shouting at guards nearby. Avantika's attacking everyone! I heard 'em say it! Avantika's-- She's finally doing it! She's trying to take over! She's finally doing it!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: We always knew she was--
Taliesin: I'm mad as hell! And I'm not going to take it anymore!
Laura: 20!
Matt: Okay. People in the nearby streets that are seeing this go like, "Are you serious? That crazy bitch!"
Laura: She's finally-- Finally!
Matt: A few people nearby take this and go, "Oh, oh!" and start going inside to avoid this. Other folks are getting angry and throwing their glasses on the ground and, "Oh! I knew one day-- Ugh!" They're pissed and going to grab their things and maybe start a militia against her. We don't know. You've rallied the corner.
Laura: Okay, good. Are there any guards within earshot that heard me shouting?
Matt: There are guards rushing towards the action that's happening behind you, and there are a few that are-- There's a bunch now making their way towards this intersection.
Laura: I'm definitely waving my tankard around and shouting at them. Ah! The docks!
Matt: Okay. You're up ahead and you hear this in the back, but you don't know it's Jester. You just hear a lot of shouting, so you're like, "Oh man, my deception worked, other people are yelling this!"
Marisha: I go  See? To the guards next to me.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: (nonsensical rabble rousing)
Matt: That finishes Jester's turn. It's Yasha's go. Yasha is currently grappled, but you can still make her actions. She has to use an action to break free if she wants to to move, but otherwise her movement is zero. But she has advantage because she's still raging.
Travis: She's going to try to break the grapple.
Matt: All right, make an athletics check with advantage.
Travis: 22. 22.
Matt: He got a six.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: So the guy managed to luckily grapple her last turn. She just flicks him off. He's like, "Ow!" So she's free of the grapple.
Travis: She's free of the grapple and she's going to turn and say: Not me, them! And not attack. Or run.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: There's three people around her in melee. She's not going to run.
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Travis: That's it.
Liam: Yeah, good call.
Matt: All right, that ends Yasha's turn. Caduceus.
Taliesin: I Immediately turn visible.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: Hey.
Matt: They all (gasp).
Taliesin: I'm going to-- Yeah. I'm just going to help my friend there. I'm not going anywhere, it'll be fine. I'm going to cast Bless on Nott and Yasha and can I Bless myself or can I not Bless myself?
Matt: You can Bless yourself.
Taliesin: I can Bless myself. So I'm going to cast Bless on the three of us.
Matt: All right. That gives you d4.
Taliesin: That's a d4 to your saving throws and to your attacks.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: All your saving throws and your attacks you add a d4.
Sam: Just once though, right?
Taliesin: No, it's a concentration spell, so. A little something something.
Matt: Okay, so that ends your turn. Or what else you doing?
Taliesin: Does it look like he's going to make an attack? Because I'm going to start scooting towards--
Matt: There's no attack. He looks startled, and his hands are forward to try and-- They're not weapon drawn to bludgeon you, but they're trying to keep you from going anywhere.
Taliesin: How far away is Caleb, currently?
Liam: 95 or 100 feet.
Matt: From where you are there, 90 from there, about 110 feet from you.
Taliesin: I'm going to point and start walking that way, just going-- Is he going to make a swing?
Matt: He's going to attempt to stop you.
Taliesin: Okay, I can't use a bonus action to convince him to let me walk by, can I?
Sam: You're invisible.
Matt: No. Unfortunately, you may not know this, they are currently magically compelled.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. Would I know that or would I not know that?
Matt: You would not know that.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fair. All right. It's looking like he's going to hold--
Matt: As you're trying to tell him this and trying to scoot by, he like--
Taliesin: I'm going to turn to the other side of him while not being very aggressive and I'm going to--
Matt: He heads you off of the pass and is saying, "Stay put."
Taliesin: I know, but he's--
Matt: "Stay put."
Taliesin: He needs a little bit of healing--
Matt: "He'll deal with it. Stay put!"
Taliesin: While we're having that conversation, I'm going to flip around to the other side of him so I'm a little further away from Yasha. The other way.
Matt: The other way?
Taliesin: Yeah. Keep going. There. Not quite in contact with the other--
Matt: Okay. There's other guards here, that are--
Taliesin: I'm not going to quite bump into them, you know.
Matt: Okay. He's still trying to maneuver around.
Taliesin: Is there shit I can do with my bonus or is there nothing I can do with my bonus? Probably not. That might be everything I can do. Yeah, I'm going to cast a quick Healing Word on Yasha who could probably use a quick Healing Word.
Travis: Okay. She'll take it.
Taliesin: So take a little--
Matt: Fjord, you're up next.
Taliesin: Ooh, that's nice. Take an extra nine points of healing.
Travis: Thank you, sir.
Matt: There you go. All right. Fjord, it's your go.
Travis: My distance from Caleb, please.
Liam: 30 feet.
Matt: Yeah, with the Misty Step and the movement you had. So you are 30 feet from him.
Travis: Amazing. I will use my 30 feet of movement to close to Caleb.
Matt: As you do, you rush past some of the guards that are on the opposite side that were rushing towards you. There's, I believe at this point, four of them that were heading your direction, because there was the one that was going towards Caleb. So we'll say two of them you'll have to push past. They both are going to make attacks of opportunity on you. Just an attempt to grapple to stop.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Make your acrobatics or athletics check to try and break free.
Travis: Acrobatics or athletics. We'll make it athletics, straight up. That is a 17.
Matt: That succeeds. They literally rolled a natural 14 plus two. 16 was the highest roll. The other rolled a two. You manage to shrug past. You push out of his grasp. He's like, "Hey, wait!"
Travis: Great. One more.
Matt: Well, no, you--
Travis: That was it? Yeah, oh, okay. I'll run down and kneel next to Caleb and go: (English accent) Help me help this man! I will pour a healing potion into his mouth.
Sam: Ooh! He does have a potion.
Matt: All right. So you come to consciousness on the ground.
Liam: (groaning) Hey. I think I skinned my face. Ah! Done. I don't know what's going on.
Matt: Well. Now it's Bouldergut's turn. Bouldergut's going to move up, shove past, and begin to take a giant club towards the barlgura. Down towards it.
Laura: Make out!
Matt: First hit is a 20 to hit?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: Other's an 18.
Travis: Okay. They both hit.
Matt: Both hit, okay. First hit is 12 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The other one is 16 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Matty? Can Avantika see that happening?
Matt: Avantika see what?
Sam: Her friend using her book to smash on top of somebody else's head?
Matt: Yeah. It's really confusing.
Travis: Those last attacks were reckless.
Matt: She's like, "No! What are you doing!" But she's used to Bouldergut not being the brightest.
Travis: His last attacks were reckless, so you could roll twice for both of them, if you want.
Matt: What's that?
Travis: She--
Matt: Oh, reckless. That's right, yeah. No! A four and a two. So both of those worked out fine. That's the end of Bouldergut's turn. Bouldergut's slamming onto this demon going, "Go to sleep! Don't hurt my friends!" Finishing her go, it is now Nott's turn.
Sam: I'm surrounded by three guards?
Matt: Yes, and they're all-- hands on their weapons, trying to subdue you and grab you. They're now shouting, "Stop! Halt!" I say guards. They're all volunteer pirates of The Revelry that help keep watch on the shipyard here.
Taliesin: They have an official sash.
Sam: The ones around Yasha, are those the same guards or are any of these people from the ship?
Matt: No, the ones from the ship are further this way, and they were being brought by guards, but they've been left alone to focus on you guys. Yasha currently is stopped, and they're all very much in a "stay there" type position. They're in the process of subduing their quarry.
Travis: I healed Caleb nine points.
Matt: Gotcha.
Sam: I will disengage and make my way towards Fjord and Caleb.
Matt: You slip past and make your way up towards Fjord and Caleb. With your disengage, and your movement, and your action, you can make your way--
Sam: 60 more feet, I think.
Matt: Yeah, 60 feet. From there, that would put you not quite to where they are, but it gets you up to where the other guards were that he rushed past, and just beyond them, because disengaged, they don't get any attacks of opportunity. All right, that ends your turn? Vera is looking not too great. Vera is going to--
Travis: (laughter) Go!
Matt: Is going to cast Scorching Ray against the barlgura. She's going to attempt to take a step back up the stairs. Barlgura does get an attack of opportunity on her.
Laura: Yeah! Balgura, fuck her up!
Travis: Oh, I do? Okay, I will make it a fist attack.
Liam: Fist to the skull!
Travis: Reckless.15.
Matt: 15 just hits. Just hits.
Laura: Get a ten!
Travis: It's a six plus four. That's ten points of damage.
Matt: Ten points of damage, ugh. All right, makes it. Natural ten again. Doesn't break the spell.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: She's having good luck with those rolls. Takes it, climbs to the top, spins around, is going to Scorching Ray towards the barlgura. That's 3d20s against it. Okay, that's going to be 20, 20, and 17.
Travis: To hit? Or damage points?
Matt: To hit.
Travis: Oh, yeah, they all hit.
Taliesin: Is he within 30 feet of me? No, not 30 feet. Goddamn it.
Matt: No. All right. Not a great damage roll. The balgura takes 18 points of fire damage.
Travis: Halved because it has resistance to nine.
Marisha: Is it still alive?
Sam: It's alive? Oh, wow!
Travis: We're in single digits, kids!
Matt: Caleb, you're up.
Sam: Caleb.
Liam: I'm just--
Matt: You wake up, come to consciousness on the ground. Fjord is getting you up. You look over your shoulder, and you can see there's a whole shit ton of guards in the area that are subduing Yasha. Caduceus seems to have put his hands up.
Liam: What is my distance from the boat?
Matt: From the boat? From now, you'd be about 160 feet.
Liam: 160 feet? If I got to my feet, that's half my movement.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: If I moved ten feet I'd be within 150 feet, correct? Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I will weakly stand, and I will weakly trudge ten feet forward, and I will throw a Fireball and center it-- where's Vera?
Travis: She was over here.
Matt: In your state-- where do you want to put it?
Liam: Well, where's Avantika? I don't know.
Matt: You don't know. Where are you putting it?
Liam: I'm putting it there, at the mast.
Matt: At the mast? All righty. As you wake up, you spin, fire. This ray streaks past. All the guards, who are calm at this point, see this happen, and watch the streak go by and detonate on the ship. The bright flash of light echoes against everybody's faces as the impact hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: I don't know what's going on. I'm doing the last thing that was on my mind.
Matt: Yeah, totally, man.
Liam: 8d6.
Sam: Avantika's not going to be alive to defend herself against our accusations.
Liam: She will.
Matt: That'll go well.
Travis: That would be our line.
Sam: No, really! She was a really bad person before we killed her and everyone on the boat.
Travis: She's on the lip.
Liam: 31.
Matt: 31, good rolls.
Liam: Yes, good rolls.
Matt: Okay, so, Bouldergut, that's a fail. Bouldergut's looking rough.
Liam: So Caleb's whole face and cheek, one side is skinned.
Matt: Just a strawberry scrape. All right, this guy. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, on mine? That would be on mine-- sorry, everybody. Scheisse. I think it's 16?
Matt: It should be 16, I think,. It's eight plus your proficiency plus that.
Liam: Yeah, 16.
Matt: All right, so he succeeds. He rolled a 17, so he takes-- 31, you said? So 15 points of damage to him. Oh, he's dead. He's fucking done. He took damage from the Fire Wall earlier.
Sam: Oh, that's the guy who was already at the gangplank?
Matt: Yeah. That guy, he makes his save, but he dies too.
Laura: Oh god!
Sam: Matt's making me feel sad for these people.
Matt: This guy doesn't make his save; he's dead.
Laura: Oh god! The whole crew is dead!
Sam: This is what we do to crews on ships.
Matt: Roll for the barlgura.
Travis: Oh, it's incinerated. It had three hit points. Even if he saves.
Matt: Yeah, the barlgura is destroyed. Vera-- that's cocked.
Sam: We hate seamen.
Matt: That is 13, does not succeed. Vera takes 31 damage. Vera's almost dead, is burned, incinerated on the ground, not moving.
Travis: Unconscious?
Taliesin: What happens to her concentration spell?
Matt: Concentration spell's lost.
Taliesin: Do the guards now know that they were being manipulated?
Matt: It doesn't work like that, unfortunately. But their compulsion's no longer there.
Liam: They saw the Fireball go over their heads, yes.
Matt: Yeah. With that, the spell fades. Vera crumbles to the ground, barlgura's gone, giant explosion. The mast leans slightly to one side from the impact. This guy was out of the radius, actually.
Taliesin: Still have to make a dex save from it, though.
Matt: I'd say if he hit the mast-- I'd say it hit him, actually, yeah.
Travis: His poor feet. He's like, "Fuck!"
Matt: Ipess has to make it as well. He fails, so he gets incinerated.
Travis: How many life sentences are you serving, Caleb?
Matt: Ipess does make it. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw, Caleb.
Liam: Multiple?
Matt: No, the DC's real high on this one.
Liam: Yeah, I'm sure it's going to fail. This is a wisdom? 18.
Matt: As you go conscious, you watch as bodies go flying off the side and fall limp to the side of the dock, their bodies still smoldering but unmoving. You start flashing back to a very painful memory, and Caleb's eyes glaze over. You are currently stunned.
Travis: What? No. Hey!
Matt: Okay, that ends Caleb's turn. The guards that were calm are no longer calm. As they see you do this, the guards that were behind you charge in, and all grapple both of you. Are you resisting?
Travis: No.
Matt: No, all right. You are dogpiled and grappled.
Sam: Oh god. Are we giving up?
Travis: Let me see. Yeah!
Sam: There's only six or seven of them. We're super powerful.
Travis: I've got crazy spells after the next short rest.
Matt: All right. Damn.
Travis: Ain't no stretch of time I ain't ever done that could break a man.
Matt: Ipess looks around at the destroyed crew, saw Vera go down, and runs up to try and see how she's doing. The remaining crew, which is just the one here, and this one here.
Laura: Is Bouldergut still alive?
Matt: Bouldergut's still alive, barely. Barely.
Travis: I think Avantika thinks that Bouldergut had the book. Would the book have taken the Fireball damage?
Matt: Currently the book's still in her hands. There was no variation in that.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: The book is still held there in her hand. Okay, that's going to end the crew's turn. Coming back to you, Beauregard, as you're just waiting. You keep waiting?
Marisha: I tell the guards standing next to me, because I'm assuming they saw the explosion of the Fireball, I'm going to say: More people die with each passing moment. Will you at least walk with me? Time is of the essence here.
Matt: "Don't do anything funny." They turn around and start walking with you.
Liam: That's a good deal. Yes, yes, yes!
Marisha: I power walk like a grandma at a mall.
Matt: They're (grunting), trying to keep up a bit.
Marisha: It's 9 00am, the doors just opened!
Travis: Those sweet all-white New Balance.
Marisha: Got my insoles!
Matt: Avantika takes a quick glance at the scenario, and opens the hatch and charges inside of her ship.
Taliesin: What's she got in there?
Sam: Dildos.
Laura: Just a big shipment of dildos.
Travis: She does. (laughter)
Matt: At this point, unless anyone's going to resist, combat comes to an end and we are now at a role playing point. At that moment, we'll take a break. Unless you were doing anything?
Travis: Are you resisting?
Sam: I'm running. I'm not going back to jail!
Matt: We'll take a break in a second, then.
Travis: I'm never going back!
Matt: Because when it gets to Nott's turn--
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to bolt.
Matt: Okay. If that's the case, there are four guards now. No, because now two of them have changed direction to go towards you and help subdue you guys. There's two after you now. They're both going to attempt to grapple you and stop you. Make two acrobatics checks.
Sam: Not great. Ten.
Matt: Ten on the first one.
Sam: 17.
Matt: Both fail, actually.
Sam: Oh, they both got me?
Matt: Yeah, that was a 12 and an 18.
Sam: Who are these guards? I wasn't next to anybody!
Matt: This was as you were charging through there, and on their turn they moved up to you.
Travis: They played sports when they were younger. They're really dextrous.
Matt: Your movement's zero, you can't escape. We'll say that happened on their turn, so on the beginning of your turn, you're grappled. You can attempt to break free if you want to.
Sam: From one of them.
Matt: Actually, that's an interesting point. Let me pull up my new, fancy Player's Handbook.
All: Ooh!
Sam: What is that?
Liam: It's their new limited edition.
Marisha: It's a box set. It's so fucking hot.
Matt: Unintentional commercial, but these are so awesome.
Taliesin: Oh my god, it's too pretty.
Matt: I think they're brick-and-mortar only, so you've got to go to actual game stores.
Marisha: Go to your local game stores. Support small businesses!
Taliesin: You'll see me at a game store. I don't know which one, but I'll be there.
Liam: A thousand years of D&D!
Marisha: When are you going to be rich, son?
Taliesin: D&D. &D.
Matt: It doesn't say. I'll say make a check and we'll see if it's high enough for each of them.
Sam: It's not. It's a two.
Matt: No. They hold tight, you can't move. Your movement's zero. They're both clutching you there on the side.
Sam: (sighs) I relent.
Matt: Okay. With the chaos now coming to a stop, and Nott prevented from escaping, though that would have been a fun chase sequence, now we'll go to a break.
Liam: Matt, we have played this game for hundreds of hours together. That was two of the best hours of this game ever! That was so much fun.
Matt: Man, that was really intense.
Travis: Did we turn it on its head for you?
Matt: Oh, there was a few things there that went differently than I expected!
Taliesin: I was having so much Treasure Island flashes. That's one of my favorite books, and it's like all of this is so good! All of it's so good!
Matt: Before we go to the break, we have our fantastic giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood, who are giving away this leather-inset zebrawood dice tray.
Marisha: That's the one I got. It's so pretty.
Matt: To join the contest, you have to go and jump over to the Critical Role Twitch chat, that's at twitch.tv/criticalrole, during the break, and enter the keyword "fire." Only enter it once, more than once and you'll be disqualified. Once again, unfortunately, only the US and Canada, excluding Quebec. We'll have a winner for you at the end of the break. See you guys then.
Travis: Oh my god! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. Before we go in, we have our winner of our fantastic Wyrmwood dice tray, zebrawood dice tray. The winner is WonderfulMouse. Congratulations, WonderfulMouse! We'll get that sent to you ASAP.
Marisha: So cute.
Matt: Diving back in. As the rest of you stand there amongst the shipyard docks, subdued by the harbor watch, The Revelry watch there. More gather, and more gather, I'd say about half the watch of this city, the volunteer mercenaries that take their shifts to keep their eye on their island, little haven there, all flood the docks to see what the hell just went down. You look up and see the blackened, charred sails of the ship, treated against weathering, but still darkened from the blast of the fireball, the wood itself darkened and splintered in places. You can see that giant, burned U that marks the deck. Everything is held in place. You're making your way to the guards. What are you doing, Jester? You see Beau being led up by the guards towards the Throne Roost.
Laura: Okay, you can do it, Beau. Do I see the big fire explosion too, as it happens?
Matt: Oh yeah, you saw and heard the distant (explosion).
Taliesin: Whitestone saw the fire.
Travis: (singing) Whitestone saw the fire.
Laura: Oh. Okay. I hope everyone's okay. Please, Traveler, be with them. I'm going to start running towards the docks in disguise.
Matt: Okay. The guards have now pulled you all to your feet, and have begun to apply manacles to your hands. Not anything too aggressive, but for the purpose of safety and to maintain the order within this community, they're particular and careful. They also go onto the deck, and you see them beginning to collect the bodies of those that were killed. Bouldergut is inconsolable and furious, and it takes a few guards to get her to calm down. Avantika is having a conversation with a couple of the guards. You guys are being pulled away from the docks, towards the city. As you are brought towards the edge of it, one of the guards, adorned a little better than the rest, have a brief discussion. You overhear one of them say, "Hold tight, apparently someone's going to get the Plank King." While you guys are all waiting, and you're going to convene with the rest of your troupe--
Laura: I'm not going to join them.
Matt: But go and find the vicinity.
Laura: See what's going on, yeah.
Matt: There are many looky-loos on the edges of the shipyards here. The docks make up probably a good third of Darktow. Before you actually get the edge of the cliff where the city itself is built on different areas and platforms, and the streets all rise at a perpetual grade, as it is embedded in the side of the cliff. There are folks who are looking over to see what happened. Usually this kind of stuff does not go down within the city. You can see that people are excited, and worried, and making up their own stories, and what they saw. One of them is like, "It was crazy! A demon fell from the sky and slammed into the boat and it was intense!" The rumors are going crazy.
Marisha: It was a Gwar concert.
Matt: That's a 7th-level spell, Summon Gwar Concert.
Laura: (old man voice) Did Avantika finally do it? Did she finally do it?
Sam: She's still trying?
Laura: I always heard that she was going to stage a coup. Did she finally stage one? (laughter)
Taliesin: If I can take ten minutes of this time sitting manacled to cast Prayer-- if enough of us are within 30 feet of each other right now.
Matt: You can probably all-- they do round you up. However, as soon as you begin to make any physical action towards spellcasting--
Taliesin: It's all vocal.
Matt: It's only verbal?
Taliesin: It's only verbal. And I tell them.
Matt: You tell them you're going to cast a spell?
Taliesin: I'm going to be healing everybody. It's a thing that I--
Matt: "No spellcasting."
Taliesin: (loud sigh)
Matt: "Don't want any funny stuff."
Taliesin: All right, that's fine.
Sam: Have they taken our weapons?
Matt: They have, after manacling, taken your weapons. The individuals are carrying them at their side. Not yours. They couldn't find yours.
Travis: I wonder why.
Matt: They have your crossbow, and they've taken your shield and your staff.
Laura: Am I within range of everybody? Could I be in the crowd, but near everyone? (laughter)
Matt: There is a small perimeter being held, but you could get probably within 20, 25 feet or so of them.
Laura: Then, if I'm within 30 feet, I'm going to cast Prayer of Healing on my buds.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What? On your buds?
Laura: On my buddies!
Matt: Make a performance check to see how subtly you can-- no, this would be deception. Make a deception.
Laura: A deception check. Okay.
Travis: Come on.
Laura: Eight. Well, I hope those people are going to be okay. They look like they're pretty hurt up in there. Some of them look like they're bloody. That one looks burned.
Matt: As you begin to subtly try and sneak your verbal components of your spell into the discussion, one of the guards goes: "Hey! Sorry, we're making sure there's no casting this close to it, if you don't mind."
Laura: Makes sense. I just saw some were hurt. I was trying to help out, but if they don't want it, then I ain't going to do it.
Matt: "It's best not to get involved. Terribly sorry about that."
Sam: I want to hear more!
Matt: Nah, that's it.
Liam: No! It was so good!
Taliesin: This is what you get for Counterspell.
Matt: He's telling everyone, "Please, hold tight. Don't worry. We're taking care of it."
Taliesin: It's just a cheek caress, then gone. Not even a kiss goodnight.
Matt: Anyway, about 30 or so minutes pass for the rest of you. As make your way up the steps now, trying to jaunt, you manage to catch up to the armored fellow, who now acts as the tip of the spear, essentially. Now you're flanked and to the front, although the flanking has to shift as the space for the steps ascending to the Throne Roost get only wide for one person at a time. You are being held at that point. You make your way up to the Throne Roost, to the shelf of stone. There you see, standing at the edge, is the Plank King himself, blackened curls still dangling around his massive goliath head, his long coat billowing slightly with the bit of wind that's whipping around the side of the cliff face. The morning fog is burning off of the nearby reefs, and you can see a little bit further out. The sky itself is still dull gray. Looks over and goes, "That was quite the display, wouldn't you say?" The guard goes, "Right, sir. One of them, we found at least someone running from the bit who says they have information for you." He goes, "Oh yeah, no, I recognize this one. Step forward."
Marisha: 'Sup?
Matt: "So what's all this?"
Marisha: What, the display you just saw, or this?
Matt: "If you don't mind, tell me what's going on."
Marisha: I think you just won the lottery, friend. I toss him the book.
Matt: He flips through the pages. "This is gibberish."
Marisha: I know. Luckily, one of our crew members is smart enough, and he deciphered the whole thing. In there you'll find everything you need to know about the coup that Avantika has been planning. Whispers about wanting to rule the sea. She has been worshipping an outer-worldly being called Uk'otoa, left over from the Betrayer Gods.
Matt: He glances through the paperwork, looks at you giving him this sly grin, and goes, "You, newcomer into these waters, spent less than a day amongst our people and have already attacked and stolen from one of our own, as well."
Marisha: I didn't attack; she attacked us first.
Matt: "Well, we'll see what she has to say to defend herself, as well. Hang tight with me here, with these men. The rest of you, get the rest of your guard. Bring her friends, and bring Avantika and who else had survived that massacre up here to the roost."
Marisha: You're going to trust the things that she says? You'll see a U burned into the deck of the ship.
Matt: "I don't trust anyone, and I trust more those that I've mistrusted for years than those I've only come to mistrust and know right now. So we'll see where it all lies. Be patient. If what you say is true, then we've got all time in the day."
Marisha: You have time to read that book right now?
Matt: "I don't read a fucking piece of this, but I've got a few friends who are more of a page-turning type."
Marisha: Hey, you came to me, though. Why?
Matt: "Because I wanted to see if you'd actually do something. Remember, we don't turn on pirates here."
Marisha: What do I get when I'm right?
Matt: "If you're right, then I'll judge you based on the fact that you broke our law as soon as you got here, and I'll weigh it versus how positive this tells me. There's not enough, well, maybe you and Avantika will find yourselves out there on a pike of warning."
Marisha: How about we strike a deal right now? Because when you go down there, you're going to see murdered crew mates and a U burned into the deck of that ship from where she was trying to summon Uk'otoa.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: Oh god.
Laura: Oh god.
Liam: (whispers) You crazy motherfucker.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Okay. He nods a bit.
Marisha: So if you think you can trust anything that she says before you get into the details of that book, details that we've already deciphered, as we've been on the seas with her for quite some time, and the betrayal that we have seen.
Matt: "So's this one." He snaps his fingers, and you see a cloaked figure step out of the shadows, the same cloak that passed you on the stairs the night before.
Travis: Oh, right.
Laura: Is it Jamedi?
Matt: It's Jamedi, hood pulled back.
Sam: Is he with us?
Laura: I like Jamedi.
Travis: Jamedi does not like her.
Matt: At which point, the Plank King steps up towards you, now looming over you, a good two and a half feet of height on you. This imposing presence, wide like a mountain, glancing down at you with a grin. You can smell his early morning breath of rotting teeth and whatever he had the night before pulsing from his grin. He goes, "I have to say, for someone so small, you've got some serious balls."
Marisha: Thanks. That's not the first time I've heard that.
Matt: "And if you survive, I'm sure it won't be the last. All right. Let's go see your friends."
Marisha: Hey! I want a boat, and safe passage out if we're correct.
Matt: "If this is right, let's hope you didn't blow up too much of her boat; it'll be yours."
Marisha: Deal.
Matt: "If it's enough."
Travis: Oh god. (choking)
Matt: The guards now turn and spin you around and push you back down the stairs as the Plank King follows behind, Jamedi keeping a close watch. He goes and shouts something off to the side. He goes, "Solon! I'm going to need your brain for this one. Come on." You hear a voice go, "All right, I'm coming."
Liam: Solon?
Travis: Solon?
Matt: Solon. S-O-L-O-N. Coming around the corner, you see a human man, probably in his late 50s, early 60s. Bit of an unkept puff of a chin goatee, his hair thinning in this big widow's peak, gray to white. These big spectacles around his eyes, and this tattered, thin mustache that's attempted to be curled into a handlebar, but it seems to have split in places and is not very well kept. He has this big, green cloak that's wrapped around his shoulders that is so much material and billowing so widely, it makes his head comparatively look much smaller. He's clutching a bag, and he's getting his stuff. "Wait here, I'm getting my stuff. Ugh!" They keep walking, and eventually you see him trying to catch up from behind. (panting) You take it this was probably what the Plank King was referring to as his bookish friend.
Travis: You think?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: He's the fighter.
Matt: As you guys are all patiently waiting here, looking amongst yourselves, is there anything you wish to do, or are you succumbing to the hope that Jester, Beauregard, and/or possibly the Plank King comes to situate this? Eventually, you see Avantika brought up from the ship in manacles, as well.
Liam: Well, I've noticed that they're not letting any of us cast anything, correct?
Matt: No, they shut that down.
Liam: Then no. I would do Mage Armor, but no.
Taliesin: This is basically a short rest? Is this what this is?
Matt: It's not quite long enough to be a short rest.
Liam: Motherfucker.
Travis: I know, I was going to say the same thing.
Matt: Actually, you know what? No, it's about an hour of short rest. I give that to you.
Travis: Bless you, Mercer.
Matt: For the travel of Beau to the front, and the rest of the guard to get there; for the Plank King conversation; for him to descend the Throne Roost to make his way through the city to the docks; yeah, that's over an hour.
Liam: Then in these circumstances, I would dismiss Frumpkin from the Material Plane and bring him back on my shoulder, so he's with me.
Matt: Okay. As Frumpkin appears on the shoulder, one of the watch goes, "Oh, where'd you come from, little one? Didn't even see you come in." Begins scritching Frumpkin.
Liam: He's friendly. That's my pet cat.
Matt: Doesn't even talk to you. Just looks at Frumpkin. "Who's a cute little kitty? We don't get cats much on this island. It's good to see one. Wonder what ship you came aboard?" (laughter)
Liam: I'm thinking really bad thoughts.
Matt: Eventually, as the crowd begins to part, you see a number of the guard, a few of the bodyguards that you had seen previously sitting amongst the shadows of the Throne Roost when you first arrived the night before. You guys came roaring into this town; you definitely did. There you see Beauregard being flanked by three guards, one better-armored than the others, and then there, stepping behind that, the looming figure of the Plank King. He approaches. "So not here but 24 hours and you've already made a mess of our little home, have you? I could see the flames from my Roost. My crow's men tell me they spotted you walking aboard the Squalleater and assault Avantika, one of our own. Apparently a few of you fleeing into the city. You know I have my misgivings about trusting anyone, but I'm far more likely to toss in with those that I've mistrusted long enough to at least know where they stand. I don't know a fucking bit about all of you. So my other friend--" and he points towards Jamedi, who's now in the back, and the rest of you see, "-- says that you've all come in with her lot naught but maybe two weeks back, and that not most of you have much of an experience on the sea, naught but one. The rest of you still haven't quite found your legs on the waters. I'm going to ask you right now, what brought you out there, to mucking with the pirates' deals? Speak up!"
Travis: We understand your distrust. We are new here, and we only beg your patience as we prove ourselves before you. Avantika and her crew were up to foul deeds. Our friend Beau here, I trust, has shown you her journal.
Matt: He reaches back in his pocket and goes, "Oh, right. Here," and gives it to Solon, who goes, "Oh, all right. This is not a language I really know--"
Marisha: There's a cipher in the front.
Matt: "Oh, yeah."
Liam: Yeah, it's wedged into the back page.
Matt: He takes it and pulls it out, looks at it. "Oh, fuck me, this is--"
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty good work, right?
Matt: "Sir, with all due respect, it's going to take me a long while to do this. This is elaborate."
Marisha: I told you, yeah.
Taliesin: I think there's already some work that can be checked, if that speeds it up. I mean, that should be--
Matt: The Plank King goes, "Shh."
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Matt: "You said there's some special parts here, of looking to overturn me or something? What pages are that at?"
Liam: Excuse me, I am the one who deciphered this. That is near the end.
Marisha: He's our Solon.
Matt: Solon goes, "Oh! I'd very much like to have a conversation with you."
Liam: As you will, if that is welcome here, but yeah. The bit about her being a traitor to the Plank King, and wanting to rule over the entire sea, and have the Plank King-- I believe the words are, if I remember correctly, because my memory is spotty, "bend the knee."
Matt: You point out the space where that was.
Liam: Is near the end, ja, right here.
Matt: Thumbs through, and he goes--
Liam: It's complex.
Matt: "Okay. O great king, give me a bit of time with this, if you don't mind?" He looks around. Everyone's looking at him. At this moment he glances around and sees the dozens and dozens of eyes locked on him, and he starts getting a little nervous. You see a little sweat drop on his forehead, and he adjusts his glasses again. They're starting to fog a bit. He goes, (clears throat), plops down, and starts going through, and pulls out paper and a quill. He sets up in the middle of the dock area and starts going through and point-by-point deciphering and translating each part of the cipher over to one of his empty pages.
Travis: Great king, if we may, time we have.
Matt: "That we do."
Travis: It's at your whim that we serve. I think it would be only fair to ask that we remain under guard while your compatriot here translates that text.
Matt: "Oh, we're standing right here."
Travis: Fair enough.
Matt: "You still haven't answered my question. What brought you to these waters? Why'd you throw in with her lot?" You see now, they're bringing Avantika forward with the rest of you.
Marisha: Well, we're from Wildemount. Hired mercenaries from the Empire. I'm with a secret order of the monks from the Cobalt Soul, known as the Expositors. Avantika has been a person of interest that we've been wanting to investigate for some time, and I was sent to do that. So, unfortunately, our business has nothing to do with you fine folk here of Darktow. It only has to deal with Avantika. She's disrupted our shores enough. We decided to investigate.
Matt: "Where does your allegiance lie?"
Marisha: My allegiance is completely separate and isolated from any persons here. My allegiance is with the Cobalt Soul.
Matt: His eyes narrow. Make a deception check. I'll say with advantage because you did drop the Cobalt Soul. In particular with the Plank King, that has meaning.
Liam: I would like to read her as well.
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Matt: Yes, for you.
Marisha: 22.
Matt: The Plank King nods and goes--
Marisha: My voice is shaking. I'm so nervous.
Liam: 22 for me.
Matt: Yeah, you barely see through. There's a hint of truth, and there's a hint of not so true. It's a half-truth.
Liam: Caleb sees it! Go away, Fjord! Go away!
Marisha: Mixed lies or half-truths.
Matt: The Plank King nods and goes, "Ah, the Archives. I've had some dealings."
Marisha: Hmm. So you have your library card?
Matt: "Not much of a reader. But your folk have done good work for our interests in the past. So! It's the woman of the hour. What have you to say about yourself when these strangers have come waltzing into our little haven and causing all sorts of ruckus. Murdering your crew and making these claims against you. Known you for years." Avantika, hand behind in shackles goes, "Well." Her face, you can see bits where dirt, sweat lines have made their way across and down the sides of her chin and jaw. Looking intently at the rest of you with a forced smile through her teeth, there is a look of murderous rage and loss in her eyes, as you have murdered a majority of her crew. She goes, "Well, I can guarantee that I kept no journal. They came to me at sea with discussion of perhaps coming and joining my crew, looking for means of aid and gold. They began to talk of this strange entity, this Uk'otoa. Well, I followed suit. I wanted to make for some kind of alliance. I found particular interest with one of their individuals." She looks over towards Fjord, "But it seems such a romance was merely just another way to try and toss me to the proverbial wolves, or merrow if it will. They've now killed my crew. They've taken a number of my things, damaged my ship, and they're trying to smear my name. One who has walked alongside you and all of you fine, fine folks for the past ten years! Even using the memory of Vandren against me." You hear a few voices go like, (murmuring) "Vandren." "Vandren raised this one and he sabotaged his ship. Blew it asunder in the middle of the ocean. That was the last he was seen. He's already killed one of our own. Is this untrue?"
Travis: (stuttering) Is she talking to me?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: From the crowd, I'm going to go  She's lying! We always knew she had it in for the Plank King!
Matt: Someone goes, "Shh!" All eyes are on you.
Travis: Plank King, if I may. My ears, though pointy, can only stand a certain amount of dishonesty. I would prefer to cut through the bull. There are those of us among us who can make sure that the truth is spoken here. I would beg of you to allow that to happen now.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Travis: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: The Plank King gives you this very severe look. His eyes narrowed and glancing you up and down, almost piercing you with but a glance. He raises his hand with a grin and goes, "Oh. What's necessary for such a thing?"
Travis: (whispering) Who has that shit?
Marisha: I do and Jester does.
Travis: You do?
Marisha: Yeah. It takes me literally punching the shit out of Avantika though.
Travis: Honorable Plank King, the means justify the ends. My compatriot here will place her Cobalt knuckles upon the chin of Avantika and you will hear the truth. You need but only ask your questions again.
Matt: "Be my guest." Avantika is like, "What is--"
Marisha: Before she-- (double punch) (laughter)
Matt: She's manacled and being held by two guards from behind. It's auto-hit.
Liam: Holy shit.
Marisha: Go for the temple.
Matt: Do you have a ki point left?
Marisha: Yeah, I have all of my ki points left. More or less. All but one. Yep.
Matt: All right. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: Mine, I'm assuming, which is 14. Hang on. Features and traits.
Matt: Yeah, whatever your DC is for all of your monk stuff.
Liam: (whispering) Monk stuff!
Sam: (whispering) Monk stuff!
Travis: (whispering) Monk stuff!
Marisha: Yeah, 14.
Matt: Okay. It's a wisdom save. No. That's a natural eight plus four. 12. So all these different hits and pressure points are hit, like under the chin, that area. Another to the sternum and another that clocks the temple. And Avantika just, "Ugh!" (heavy breathing)
Marisha: They are unable to speak a deliberate lie for one minute and all charisma checks have advantage.
Matt: Intimidation checks? Oh, charisma checks! Yeah, persuasion, everything else. That's right, yeah.
Liam: Mein Gott.
Travis: Make sure you tell the Plank King it's a limited time engagement.
Matt: She's like  "Ugh!"
Marisha: You have 60 seconds, but I have more knuckles.
Matt: The Plank King steps forward. "Avantika, is what they're saying true?" She goes, (frustrated grunt) Glances aside. Doesn't respond. He leans forward closer. "Tell me."
Liam: (whispering) Silence speaks volumes, though.
Matt: "Is what they're saying true? Is that book containing passages where you're looking to take this island for yourself?" Her eyes look away. She just looks down at the rest of the dock. He leans in real close, pushing his forehead almost to hers. "Look me in the eye, woman."
Marisha: Oh my god!
Matt: She just doesn't meet his gaze. "Hmm. By the power of The Revelry that surrounds me, let this be a lesson to those who would work against the words we swore to each other on this land. May your memory be besmirched for the few days it's recalled." He reaches forward and grabs Avantika by the throat and lifts her up and she's fighting against it. He lifts her and looks at her. "I hope your sea god, whatever it is, is very merciful on the other side." (cracking) He breaks her neck with one hand. Her body goes limp in his grasp and he throws it to the docks. "Don't worry about the cipher." Solon goes, "It's actually quite interesting. I'd like to continue." "Fine."
Liam: I worked through the night on that. It's very interesting.
Matt: "And it's really well done! I'm honestly very taken aback by it. Your penmanship is quite good as well."
Liam: Breakfast.
Sam: I have a sample of her penmanship here if you want to see some more of it.
Matt: "Oh, certainly!" He goes and starts taking it. At this point, the Plank King goes, "Take her up top. She'll be the next on the pike. As for the rest of you, you've pulled out a conspiracy, I'll give you that. You've also snuck your way into The Revelry under false pretenses. You've broken our laws within but a day of being presented with them, in multiple ways. That's a serious offense. So hear my judgment upon these folk. You are hereby banished from Darktow. Take the remnants of the Squalleater as your own. Take whatever--" He looks over towards the rest of the crew you hired, who are like (panicked panting).
Travis: (laughter) Those poor fuckers!
Matt: They have had a terrible few weeks here! Except for Orly, who's sitting there, smoking a pipe, and his one eye goes.
Travis: Stone-cold killer.
Liam: He is so stoned.
Matt: "Take the ship you've thereby damaged. Limp your way beyond the reefs. We're going to burn the colors of that ship. Should you ever return to the outskirts of the Dragshallow, we won't hesitate but sink you to the depths below."
Travis: That is beyond a generous sentence.
Matt: "Unshackle them. This stands immediately. I hope you have enough supplies in that boat to last you the rest of the journey."
Sam: (whispering) I don't think that we do.
Taliesin: We'll be fine.
Travis: We'll make do. We will leave with great haste.
Matt: "Good. Tell the Archives that the Plank King sends his regards."
Marisha: Will do, good sir.
Matt: "Now fucking go!"
Laura: Before everybody gets on the boat, can I run over to the docks because I'm not shackled, and I try to find the jewels that I dumped off the docks.
Matt: Okay. You have to dive into the water to do so.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So, you jump into the water. Make an investigation-- No, this'll be a perception check with disa-fucking-vantage.
Sam: Disa-fucking-vantage!
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Ooh! (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow, fuck you!
Laura: Two ones!
Liam: You counterbalanced the rest of this game!
Taliesin: Fucking belly flop into the water!
Travis: Sin eater!
Sam: Two ones in a roll.
Liam: Has that happened since the walk of shame?
Laura: No.
Liam: Two years ago.
Matt: You spend the next five or so minutes scrounging through silt and muck and barnacles and gathered bits of kelp and various other underwater plant life that has rooted itself among the rocks here. You've scraped your fingers, they're bleeding from digging through. You find a cluster of these gems that you dropped and you climb up out of the freezing water and find one of the nearby ladders and come up. Looking at your quarry, it is a bunch of rocks.
Taliesin: Come on, Jester, let's--
Matt: Oh you don't see Jester. You just see an old prospector come up.
Taliesin: That's right.
Travis: You're a prospector!
Laura: These are beautiful rocks. Beautiful.
Matt: You guys are ushered to the Squalleater. Your crew is ushered to the Squalleater.
Sam: Oh! The Mist is gone? The Mistake?
Matt: The Mistake is still in repairs and at this point has been left behind.
Liam: Ja, we will take the bigger boat!
Travis: Avantika's crew are still manacled up?
Matt: The remained of them, yes. Bouldergut is heavily manacled and is currently guarded by seven different guards.
Marisha: Should we try to take them?
Travis: No. Maybe one or two of them. Ipess?
Laura: What? They're going to hate us.
Liam: No.
Travis: What? We've got to have somebody to kill while we're at sea.
Liam: No.
Sam: Yeah, we have our crew.
Liam: We have our crew. We do not need them.
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got a way.
Marisha: Yeah, we know how to sail now.
Travis: Better. Yeah, and they do.
Matt: All right. As you guys get on the ship with your crew, the ship is damaged, the sails are damaged, one of the masts is damaged. It's going to need some repairs for it to be fully functional. But you have to leave now.
Marisha: Yeah, let's go.
Matt: You take your positions at the ship, pull up the anchor, and make your way limping through the channel of Dragshallow Reef, back out towards the Swavain Islands, the Lucidian Ocean. As you slowly make your way with what little bit of wind you can pick up to bring you out there-- some of the sails are still working, so you're not fully damaged, but you're not optimal. There are a series of these-- what are referred to as the War Posts that are the clusters of driftwood and these towers that are set up along the reef and on top of the various reefs that are shallow or breach the actual surface that have cannons attached, that have flares set up and beacons that can be lit to alert Darktow. You get a better look this time of the system they have to defend this island from the Clovis Concord and anybody else that would look to make their way via ship to this island. You can see them at the ready, keeping a very close eye on your exit as you slowly walk of shame yourselves out of the purview of the Plank King and to a very carefully earned freedom.
Travis: If I may, who is really good at finding shit? You two, and anyone--
Marisha: Like investigation style?
Travis: Yeah. How about you three, into Avantika's quarters and turn it upside down.
Marisha: Ooh, you are turning me on right now.
Travis: Not my intention, but go ahead.
Marisha: Yes!
Travis: Okay.
Travis: Just in case she booby trapped this ship, search the hull, search her quarters, search everything.
Marisha: Yeah, check for traps first, okay?
Liam: I'll be doing that at disadvantage.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and calm the crew a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll point out that we're-- this is all good. We got away from the pirates, everything's all right.
Matt: Make a general persuasion check for me. Just a persuasion check.
Taliesin: That's 15.
Matt: Okay, you do. A number of the crew that you hired, some of them look like they're a little scarred from the experience, but you managed to calm them down. They seem very thankful that you've pulled them-- you brought them into this mess, but you pulled them out of it and there's something to that. Some of them begin to get back to work, begin to repair some of the aspects of the ship. Man.
Travis: Is Jester able to mend some of those damaged--?
Laura: That's what I was going to try to do, yeah. Anything that's small enough, I'm going to try to mend. Small holes.
Liam: 20 percent of the damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: There are a few places, but for the most part-- and it's only the one mast. You still have enough sails because it's a three-mast ship. You can still coast the winds, but it's not going to be optimal speed. You'll have to get back to some sort of a port to get the rest of the sails repaired because you don't have replacement sails. The downside of the Fireball. The Fireball and the-- actually. It was a 20-foot tall Wall of Fire.
Liam: Yes, but the upside was so--
Matt: It was.
Sam: Then you singed the other sails, too.
Matt: Yeah, there's a lot of sail-- you have--
Liam: Yeah, 20 feet tall. For six to 12 seconds. That didn't last more than two rounds.
Matt: I know, but that's a very intense--
Liam: Absolutely.
Matt: I would say comparatively, you're limping on one full mast of functionality, and the rest of the sails are partially damaged.
Liam: (gasps) (pigeon coos) Paint on the mast.
Laura: (pigeon coo) I was thinking about it, but it's a lot of the use of the paint because--
Sam: (pigeon coo) How about a few sails?
Taliesin: We don't have to pigeon this. I mean, we know what you can do, so maybe paint the fix for it.
Matt: Just so you know--
Laura: That's what I want. I don't want to paint the whole thing.
Matt: Just so you know, this ship travels on an average pace of around 48 miles a day. Right now with the damage the sails have sustained, you're close to 20. You're less than half speed on the ship with the damage it's sustained at the sails. It's going to take you a while to get anywhere. But you have it.
Laura: How big are the holes? Are they giant?
Matt: They're beyond Mending.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Mending can do little tears and things.
Laura: No, I'm not talking Mending, I'm talking how big are the holes?
Matt: For the ones that are damaged, the sails are mostly destroyed. They caught fire and burned.
Liam: I have a question. If I finally go to bed for like 14 hours-- Minor Alchemy for a transmutation wizard. I am able to perform an alchemical procedure on one object composed entirely of wood, stone, iron, copper, silver, and transform it into another material. If there was damage to the mast, would I be able to shove other things in there and turn it to wood? That seems like too much.
Matt: Doesn't quite work that way, and it's temporary. It's more--
Liam: It's a spell that I could've done, but I didn't take that spell. I chose Counterspell.
Matt: To be fair, I think that worked in your favor. If tonight has proved anything, if the end of the last campaign has proved anything, Counterspell's always a good choice.
Taliesin: We're going to spend a day moving slowly, but I think we're going to slowly figure out how, between all of us, we can repair this, and I'm sure we can figure out where to get some cloth.
Marisha: This just turned into a resource management game.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a lot different kind of game.
Matt: You guys have now pushed into the rest of the seafaring mist. It takes you a while to move beyond the Dragshallow Reef, the better part of the day before you escape the channel at the pace you're moving. The clouds are pretty heavy now. The open sky that you enjoyed on your way to Darktow has now become-- not a storm front by any means, but definitely cloudier skies. As you're heading outside, you can see Yasha smelling the air and be like, "This might be getting close to storm weather."
Travis: Is that a good thing?
Matt: She smiles.
Travis: It's a good thing.
Matt: Continuing past into that space, repairs are being done best you can, with the ship still limping along. You make your way out of the Dragshallow Reef, out into open waters, and the ocean is yours.
Travis: Can I find Orly?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'll bring out the map.
Matt: Bring out the map.
Travis: I don't have it near me.
Laura: Should we get close to a port or something?
Taliesin: Or an island where we--
Travis: Do we know where the map is, please?
Sam: (singing) Bring out the map!
Matt: It's usually right there. It got moved for Honey Heist, that's why. Oh, is it down there? Oh, there it is! It got hidden! It got moved from me!
Travis: Damn it, Bobby!
Matt: Damn it, Bobby. There you go.
Liam: I sell falchions and--
Marisha: I'm having an adrenaline crash now.
Liam: Yeah, we survived and--
Marisha: Are those little zoomy magnifying glasses?
Liam: They're magnifying, Matt? Where'd you get those?
Marisha: The crew got them. That was Max. Thanks, producer Max!
Travis: Do we know if we are making our way--?
Matt: You guys have just managed to make your way out of here.
Sam: Oh, going the wrong way.
Liam: So we're going right into her vagina.
Matt: Well, that is the Wildmother. She is nature, I guess.
Travis: I'll tell Orly  Orly, if you could help us plot a course, as damaged as we are, heading north to this point.
Laura: Shouldn't we get to a port or something before we--?
Sam: Yeah, we need to repair first.
Liam: There ain't no fucking port around here, motherfucker.
Sam: Well, maybe there's something over here! He knows about something. Let's ask! Orly? M-m-maybe?
Travis: Wow.
Liam: Max Headroom, coming at you from the mid-80s! W-w-what?
Matt: It's a good thing I grew up a stutterer.
Liam: Yeah. Matt is just barely old enough to know what that is.
Matt: Oh, I know Max Headroom.
Liam: I said you know what it is! Just barely.
Matt: It's funny, I didn't realize who played him until years later and I was like, really, him?
Travis: Wait, who played him?
Matt: Oh, what's the actor?
Liam: He was in The Stand as the Trashcan Man.
Matt: He was, and he played the part of Jobe in Lawnmower Man 2. Anyway!
Travis: Because this is on a trade run, and this whole isle is part of that, could we make port for more extensive repairs there?
Matt: It's a resource stop. It might have some repairs, in your experience. It's not a major port by any means, it's more of a small--
Travis: Resupply?
Matt: Yeah, it's a resupply.
Laura: Might have canvas, at least.
Taliesin: We can use Divination.
Travis: That's the closest thing.
Matt: From your experience--
Travis: Divination? What do you mean?
Taliesin: If it's been 24 hours-- once I have a long rest, I can take my morning meditation and ask the Wildmother if there's a place of calm for our boat.
Laura: You can do that?
Taliesin: I can do a lot of stuff, man.
Travis: I would love to have you do that.
Liam: Are you doing that?
Taliesin: I was going to do that. Yeah.
Matt: To answer your question, Orly goes, "Yeah. There's a way to get that working for you. We'll all take course and head for that m-m-mighty dangerous part of the sea." He marks it and they set it. You guys have been making your way around the Dragshallow northward towards that area.
Sam: Is that past where we're going?
Travis: It is, but we don't have any other--
Taliesin: Yeah, in the early morning I'm going to go to the crow's nest and have a ten-minute meditation and ask the Wildmother which direction we should be heading to find some safe harbor to heal ourselves and heal our boat.
Matt: Okay. Is this an ability, or--
Taliesin: Yes, it is a 4th-level spell, it's Divination.
Matt: Oh, there we go.
Taliesin: I'm using it. It takes ten minutes, and you can be as obtuse as you like. You can be a bird that flies in a direction, an insect, or whatever.
Travis: Thank you for the Shawshank obtuse reference.
Matt: Okay, yeah. The Wildmother responds-- Actually, let me see what will be the best answer to this one, give me just a second. (stage whisper) Talk amongst yourselves.
Taliesin: I was seeing if there was anything else I can do-- I'm setting day two spells so we'll have food and water.
Liam: If we're talking about, like business shit, Caleb is going to Beau and saying: I'm sorry, I know that this has been less than ten days, but I need my cat, so I am taking my owl, I apologize. On a side note, so impressed. I walk off with my little tiny one-ounce owl.
Marisha: Bye, Frumpkin.
Liam: I will take the time to turn Frumpkin- I have two uses left with incense- back into a Bengal cat. So he can live his best life as a Bengal cat.
Sam: (imitating Liam's accent) Bengal cat.
Liam: Diplomatic cat-munity.
Matt: You get that situated. Anybody else doing anything?
Laura: I'm going to--
Matt: Your answer, by the way, is  "Bisaft Isle brings you safest harbor in what you seek."
Taliesin: Bisaft.
Sam: Bisaft.
Matt: There's a warm, gentle embrace that comes with the words, an understanding, and a familiar matronly guidance that brings you calm on the ocean seas that have long brought you anxiety. For the first time in probably a good number of weeks, you get to walk out on that deck, take a deep breath of ocean air, and feel really confident.
Taliesin: Sea smells different today. Might just be the charred boat and-- Oh, no. Bisaft.
Travis: You look rejuvenated. Did you say Bisaft?
Taliesin: Bisaft. We're to head towards Bisaft.
Travis: You're sure?
Taliesin: Sure as anything.
Travis: All right then. You can let Orly know.
Taliesin: Orly!
Matt: "Mm-hmm?"
Taliesin: Know the Isle of Bisaft?
Matt: "Oh, I'm quite familiar."
Taliesin: That seem to be the direction we're heading right now?
Matt: "About as close as any direction gets, really." Other eye, even.
Taliesin: I think that might be the place we ought to go.
Matt: Making it jump around a bit, guys. "Mm. Very well. M-m-make sure to point this ship in that direction."
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: "And you."
Sam: On the first day we were on this boat, me and Beau and others were going to go into Avantika's cabin and snoop around.
Liam: Oh right. I rolled an 18 and a 19 ten minutes ago.
Marisha: I don't know if I rolled. I don't think I did.
Sam: I didn't roll yet either, but I was going to crawl in through the hole in her floor if it's still there.
Matt: Oh, it's still there.
Sam: To avoid any traps, and then look around the door from the inside to see if she had trapped it or anything.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check on that.
Sam: 20. 19.
Matt: No, it is not trapped.
Sam: I'll open it and let you guys in.
Liam: I rolled an investigation check ten minutes ago at disadvantage and the lower is a 27. My investigation is plus eight. I'm smart--
Matt: The lower was 19?
Liam: Yes. I rolled an 18 and a 19.
Sam: Well, I'll show Caleb around the room that I've already been in to see if he can find anything else.
Marisha: I'm in there too.
Matt: Glancing around, you find-- There's her dresser with a number of outfits, coats, shirts, things that belong to the captain that you guys get to distribute as you see fit.
Laura: (cartoon voice) Hey, look at me! I'm Avantika!
Liam: Are there any more gigantic hats?
Marisha: I was going to say teddies, but...
Matt: There's a few hats, yeah.
Liam: Gigantic hats.
Matt: Avantika-sized hats.
Marisha: (singing) Hats and teddies. Hats, hats, and teddies. (laughter)
Taliesin: (singing) Hats and teddies. Hats, hats, and teddies. (laughter)
Sam: Does she have a fragrance or anything? Like a perfume?
Marisha: Chanel No. 5.
Matt: I will say you do find some scented oils, but that's the extent.
Sam: I'll take those.
Matt: She's not a perfume keeper.
Taliesin: How about that statue above the door?
Laura: Yeah, her little altar.
Matt: The altar is still there, the altar to Uk'otoa.
Marisha: The maps-- the stuff behind her, charting out where she was going, anything in there?
Matt: Yeah. You find a few other maps and things that refer to a-- You see it breaking down the different trade routes, and you see other paths breaking out; those that try and avoid the trade routes to avoid the pirates. Those different paths they might take at different times of the year to try and head off people that are trying to avoid the waters that they're looking in. You find maps that deal with the path to Urukayxl, and you see the handwritten map by Jamedi that was the path you guys were lead through on Urukayxl to find the temple. You find another map that has circled heavily the archipelago that you've already sussed out, and you find recent notes on that same map that refer to the loose area circled where your ship went down that time ago.
Travis: Will we pass over that area as we're heading towards Bisaft?
Matt: Well, you'll get near that area. If you want to head that way, you can let Orly know to--
Marisha: It's on the way...
Liam: Are you in this room with us too, right now?
Travis: No, I'm just asking.
Matt: You find a lot of those materials. You get the sense that, aside from the maps, most of the information that she had, she kept in that book.
Marisha: Any supplies list? Any inventory  canvas on board, things to make supplies?
Matt: You find a number of fine cheeses, actually.
Marisha: Chocolate dipped strawberries, champ-pag-nay.
Matt: Not quite. All the good food was kept for the captain and some of it's turning a little, but it's cheese. Some better treats and some sugared candies that were kept specifically, like a private stash for the captain, you manage to find.
Sam: While we're down there, looking around, I'm going to say: So, you know, it's just the three of us down here.
Liam: Yeah. I'm sitting on the bed right now.
Sam: We have some secrets between us already.
Marisha: Yeah, it's been a while since just the three of us have been in a room together.
Liam: Wait a second, look at me. I'm sitting on the bed. I am the servant of a demigod. This is going to be very hard for Fjord.
Sam: Yes, well...
Marisha: What? You're jumping around so much.
Liam: We can get back to what you're talking about, but think about it for a moment; it's just the three of us, right? We have our heads in the same game. We are the three assholes in this group, yeah?
Sam: I'm asshole adjacent.
Marisha: She's quite pleasant, actually.
Liam: That is correct.
Marisha: She might be better than both of us combined.
Liam: I'm joking because this has been such a hard day, but Fjord is going to find this very difficult.
Sam: We're going to protect him, like we always do.
Marisha: Which part difficult? Losing his fuck buddy? It's not that difficult.
Liam: That is minimalizing what he is dealing with right now. He is trying to find a father, he has compromised himself with this woman for us, for himself, for all of our safety. It is going to be difficult for him.
Marisha: Of course it's minimalizing, have you met me? Everything I do is minimalizing.
Liam: You have your pluses and your minuses.
Sam: Speaking of your pluses  the Expositors? You're special forces, did I hear that correctly? Is that what you are called?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Is that true? It seemed pretty true.
Marisha: Yeah, what Caleb said.
Liam: It's mostly true.
Sam: What do you mean-- How do you know?
Marisha: Yeah, how do you know?
Liam: She is too educated. She is too in-the-know to talk the way she does, to be interested in just drinking and chasing our barbarian friend. She is very educated. I don't know which parts are true.
Sam: Well, which parts are true?
Marisha: You want to take a guess?
Sam: I think you're a secret agent! I think you're on a dangerous mission- a life or death mission- to find bad guys and take them down! To get the collar and bring them in to the po-po, or something. I don't know how it works! I'm not a secret agent, you are!
Marisha: It's very romanticized, but on that note Caleb, do you think you could recreate that cipher that you made and have one on hand?
Liam: Of course. That is easy.
Marisha: I'd like a copy, if you don't mind.
Liam: Sure, what are friends for.
Sam: Do you have a license to kill?
Marisha: Got them right here, Nott. Just these-- No, that wasn't working? No? All right. Yeah, it's a little true, but not as intense as you think.
Sam: Are there others like you?
Marisha: Monks?
Sam: No, like--
Marisha: Expositors?
Sam: Yeah, Delta Force.
Marisha: Yes.
Sam: How do you know who's who? Do you have a sign? Secret handshake?
Marisha: Kind of new to it all, to be honest.
Sam: You guys are really cool.
Liam: No. I am looking forward to getting back to the mainland, and I don't mean the Menagerie Coast. Although... We need to get Jester back to her mother if we can, but I am not looking forward to being here anymore. I want to get back to the Empire.
Marisha: Speaking of time that it takes to travel, are we sure that Avantika was the only one who was interested in what Uk'otoa has to offer?
Liam: Well, there is still Vandren. I have read every inch of her notes, I have communicated them to you.
Marisha: I guess what I'm saying is, are we still going to be competing against others once the Plank King successfully deciphers that book?
Liam: I would imagine the Plank King would not know what to make of it. It clearly damns her. It does not give him enough information-- He wouldn't know what to do with it.
Marisha: It does kind of sound like a wives' tale.
Liam: Yeah, he's not a big thinker. He is formidable, but not a big thinker. I think we will have an easier time getting to this boat.
Marisha: Let's go talk about it with the others, I think.
Sam: Your secret is safe with me.
Laura: Above deck, can I go find Fjord?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So... that happened. (giggles)
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: How do you feel about it?
Travis: Relieved.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. I was worried for a moment there. I knew it was going to come to something like that, but Caleb pulling the trigger the way he did was--
Laura: Did he cause that explosion?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: Right.
Laura: He did a lot of damage.
Travis: He did. He's very strong.
Laura: So now we're going to find the place where your ship wrecked, yeah?
Travis: I think so, yeah.
Laura: You didn't get to ask them about Vandren, though.
Travis: No, I didn't. It hurts to see so many react to a name that only meant so much to me, but-- I don't even know if he's alive. We might find him down there.
Laura: Wow. Do you think if we find him, you'll stop talking like him?
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: You know, I could probably send a message to the Plank King and ask him about Vandren, if you want me to.
Travis: What do you mean?
Laura: Well, I can send him a message the same way I try to talk to my mama, and the Gentleman, and Kiri sometimes.
Travis: You send messages to Kiri?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: What do you say?
Laura: Oh, just that she's really cute, and that I miss her, and I wish I could see her, and I hope she's enjoying herself, and that I am sorry that we haven't seen each other in a while, and that we are pirates, and--
Travis: Can she respond to these messages?
Laura: She usually responds with, "We're pirates, and I miss you, and--"
Travis: (as Jester) Go fuck yourself.
Laura: No, she doesn't say that. She says, "Yes, I'm very cute," a lot.
Travis: Right. I suppose, what would you put in the letter to the Plank King?
Laura: Whatever you want me to.
Travis: I mean, I don't know if it's necessary. I can't think of anything as of yet. I don't know, maybe I'll just let you know. Thank you for offering, though.
Laura: Of course. Your teeth are coming in.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I saw it peek out of your lip just now.
Travis: Okay, all right. Yeah. Thank you for not telling the others.
Laura: Of course, Fjord.
Travis: I've got to go check on Orly, make sure we're going the right way.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to go see if everything's mended over this way.
Marisha: Mended over this way.
Liam: Put a piece of paper back together.
Matt: It's going to take you about a week to get to the location that you're seeking.
Marisha: The boat or the island?
Travis: The island.
Matt: No, the island's going to take longer than that-- to get to where the last time you recall your ship going down.
Marisha: With our shit all fucked up?
Matt: Yeah, it would take a shorter time. It's about eight days or so to get there, eyeballing it from here, I'd say. More than that, ten days.
Laura: Can we cast Control Water to get us there faster at all?
Matt: Do you have access to Control Water?
Laura: Of course I do.
Travis: You do?
Liam: You do?
Matt: Then yeah.
Liam: Oh fuck.
Laura: Maybe I can do that every day.
Matt: Okay. I'll say, with the Control Water--
Travis: Fucking secrets.
Taliesin: I was about to say, I might be able to do that too.
Sam: Come on, everyone has Control Water, don't they? I've got it.
Liam: I've been waiting to drop it. Fucking water genasi heritage, man.
Taliesin: Nope, never mind-- oh, yeah, I've got it, too.
Matt: It's in the cleric list, yeah.
Marisha: It's a cleric-- oh god! d4 just went flying!
Matt: Between the two of you, it allows you a brief moment where you can actually surge the water and grant you a speed boost. I'd say that'll cut three days off of your travel-- the two of you, each day, spending that slot to push it. It's like a speedboat burst. All of a sudden, your giant, three-mast ship is going (crashing water), speedboating across the ocean briefly.
Marisha: Is it an event each day? Does the crew come out and we all join. Like, "Yeah!"
Taliesin: It's like in Mary Poppins; everyone holds the china.
Marisha: Exactly!
Taliesin: And 12 o'clock.
Marisha: And let's go.
Liam: You're so stupid, Rose.
Matt: Eventually, you make your way to the open waters in the vicinity of-- Orly goes with you each day and looks about and gives you the once-over and goes, "I'm pretty sure that we're pretty dang close to that place you were asking about."
Travis: I appreciate that, Orly. Hey, Caduceus, do you have any way of, I don't know-- you've got those vibes, right?-- feeling down and, I don't know, doing a little ping on the bottom?
Taliesin: What do you-- I don't entirely understand what you're--
Travis: I don't know, I don't want to put you in a box or anything, but you seem to pick up the most.
Taliesin: You want to see if I get-- oh, for the ship. I don't know. That's a--
Laura: That'd be a Locate Object sort of situation?
Taliesin: I've got Locate Creature. Yeah, we've both got Locate Object, so we can both help with that.
Sam: What object?
Laura: A ship.
Travis: I'll summon the falchion and I'll say Maybe try to locate this, and I'll point towards the eye. Not this eye, but a similar eye.
Liam: Do you mean your penis?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: I'm going to do it.
Matt: Okay. It's a thousand-foot range, and it has to be something familiar to you.
Taliesin: I'm looking for a boat. I'm looking for a ship. I'm looking for a shipwreck, not an object. We could do object, too.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to look for his.
Matt: Okay. That's 2nd-level? It lasts for ten minutes.
Taliesin: So we can take turns.
Matt: Okay, and how many spell slots do you have 2nd-level each?
Laura: Three each.
Matt: So if you're both trading off, it's about three chances per type of use per day. How many days you want to spend looking total?
Marisha: For the boat?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: How long do we have?
Matt: It's up to you.
Sam: Do we have unlimited supplies?
Matt: Well, these guys can summon stuff with magic, if I recall.
Taliesin: Yeah, so the food ain't good, but it's edible and the water's fine.
Marisha: Until we find it.
Travis: Yeah? What, like two days and then go fix the boat proper and come back if we have to?
Marisha: I don't know. Maybe that's a team discussion.
Travis: How about we spend two to three days, and if we don't find it, we can go and repair the boat proper or at least get the materials to do that?
Taliesin: We can cast it at level three also, which is another--
Sam: If we find it, though, and we go down there-- we can't go down there. Can we go down there?
Travis: Sure we can.
Sam: But then we can't make a hasty retreat.
Laura: Yeah, it might be smart to have a boat that actually works before we go down.
Sam: I guess we could do a recon first.
Marisha: There still begs the question of, is someone else going to come looking for this? Now that the Plank King--
Taliesin: I like that we're here now.
Marisha: We gave the book with the cipher over, so if anybody else wants it--
Laura: Yeah, but we ripped out the page saying where to find--
Marisha: We did! Oh my god!
Liam: All the pertinent information is also in here.
Travis: Nott, I would leave it at your discretion. We all have the ability to travel under the waves with great ease.
Sam: We do? How? I don't.
Travis: I have a way of making it so that water becomes like air for you down there.
Sam: Does it feel like water?
Travis: It feels a little thicker, like if you were in a really dense fog, maybe?
Sam: But it's still water?
Travis: It is.
Laura: But you can breathe it, so it's really not.
Travis: Or you could stay above if you wanted to send a Message if some trouble appears on the horizon, I'd just hate to leave you behind on such a great adventure. There could be buttons, there could be little jewels, ingots--
Sam: Don't you talk down to me. I know what you're up to.
Travis: What are you talking about? Iit's the bottom of the ocean. Ships throw people all the time.
Liam: Full disclosure, I could help you cope with--
Sam: He thinks I'm going to go into the water for some fucking buttons.
Travis: I heard tell there was a button ship that crashed right along the water.
Sam: Oh, the old button ship legend, really?! Oh! Buttonbeard the Pirate?!
Travis: Yep.
Sam: He had buttons for beards!
Liam: Nott the Brave. We have things to accomplish here. If you allow me, I could do what I have done in the past a little sneakily to help you cope with this fear you have. If you allow me.
Sam: I appreciate that, Caleb, but I've got my own way of doing it.
Liam: Is it Mike Myers?
Travis: There might be bronzed shoes, maybe little silver cups. Decoder rings.
Sam: Ooh, those spoons? The little spoons, the collectible ones? Fuck this guy.
Liam: We're not there yet, though, we're talking in advance at this point? All in advance?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: We're coming upon the area, right?
Matt: Altogether with the eight of them, it cuts the travel time down to five days. So you've got time.
Sam: I'll think about it.
Taliesin: I'm going to be stocking us up on food too, so that there's more than enough food and water for the whole group.
Sam: Pewter? Plates? Those little collectible plates from the Stanford Mint or whatever?
Laura: So we're going to hang around this area before we get to the boat wrecks, yeah?
Travis: Yeah, I think so.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Okay, so taking your time, I would like you to each to roll a base wisdom check for each pass as you go through.
Sam: You two, right?
Matt: Yes. d20 plus your wisdom modifier.
Taliesin: 19.
Laura: 12.
Matt: Okay. Again.
Laura: God. Nine.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm doing save. I'm so sorry. Fuck, I was doing the wrong--
Laura: Oh, shit! I was, too.
Matt: This is just check. Add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Even lower.
Taliesin: I said 19? 16, and then 19.
Matt: Okay. Roll again. Your third spell slot of the first day, hitting this space and scanning the load.
Laura: 15.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: Okay, and you're utilizing your memory of passage through here, as well as Orly's direction on this ocean. Go ahead and roll an intelligence check for me.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Okay. First day goes through. Nothing catches your attention. You pass around, and then once you make it quite past the area, based on the measurements, where you think that you recall it happening. The next day, you make a curved turn and begin to head out to see some more land, as you can, to widen the perspective of your search. For the second day, roll again.
Taliesin: Three?
Matt: Three in a row, yeah. Unless you want to use more spell slots to do more. So you can do your 3rd-level to burn as well.
Laura: That's true. 20 on the first roll.
Taliesin: 20 on the first roll.
Laura: Lame on the second roll.
Taliesin: 14 on the second roll.
Matt: (sneezes) Pardon me. Thank you. (sneezes) Pardon. Thank you.
Sam: You're a three-sneezer?
Matt: I am, at least.
Laura: Should we try one more?
Taliesin: 16, 19. Yeah, let's blow another. What else are we going to do for the day?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Motherfuck!
Taliesin: 24.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Go ahead and roll an intelligence check for you as well.
Marisha: Come on!
Liam: "Fuh-jord-y!"
Travis: 11.
Matt: Okay. You go through the second day, and towards the end, you, Caduceus, sense a brief moment where something ship-related catches your attention, and then is gone.
Taliesin: I had a moment.
Travis: You did?
Taliesin: Yeah. It's gone now. Would I know direction, even?
Matt: Vague direction.
Taliesin: But we're moving, I know.
Matt: Yeah, you're moving. So it's like, all right, let's go ahead and turn it around.
Sam: Just point. Caleb will know the direction.
Matt: You turn the ship back in the direction of where it goes. At the very end of the second day, just as dusk is starting to creep in, you make your way back in the area, and you sense another hit.
Laura: Ooh. Should I use another 3rd-level spell and try to find the orb-y thing?
Taliesin: Let's do one more.
Matt: Okay. As you're attempting to find the orb, roll a wisdom check.
Taliesin: I'll also join in for one more for that as well. It's my last spell slot.
Matt: Okay. You lose your concentration on the Locate Object.
Taliesin: Oh. Okay, I'm still holding the boat. That's fine.
Matt: You circle around again. You've closed off a distance, but you haven't quite located the specific area yet. You're trying to guide into a vicinity. I mean, it's hard to really remember specifically where, when it's just open water and a storm looming, especially. So you get to a certain point where you're like, I'm not sure I'm being able to help, but you're starting to get something. You're not entirely sure. The divination seems to be helping, or this aspect of your Locate spell. Evening comes to a close. You ride the night out. The clouds are still thick. The next morning, you can attempt again if you like, both of you.
Travis: Come on, you got it.
Sam: Bless or something. Do a Bless!
Laura: I don't have Bless!
Sam: No, he does.
Taliesin: I do.
Laura: Bless us!
Matt: Make another intelligence check for me as well.
Taliesin: Actually, this is a check, not a save, so it wouldn't--
Laura: Oh, and I want to learn the cantrip Guidance, but I don't know any good healers that can teach it to me.
Marisha: Druids can teach it, too.
Laura: 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Travis: 20.
Matt: Okay. Roll again.
Sam: One last one.
Matt: This is your second spell slot used today?
Taliesin: 19.
Laura: Motherfuck. I'm going to use a third.
Taliesin: That was my third, was 19.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay. Between the 21 and your 20 intellect in guiding the ship around, you find yourself now collecting a secondary blip. Once again, on the ship, not on the eye.
Laura: I was on the orb.
Matt: You're concentrating on the orb, or the ship?
Laura: I was concentrating on the ball.
Matt: The ball? You find nothing.
Travis: I think that means it's probably not down there, but I'd still like to take a look.
Liam: Are we close? What are you telling us?
Travis: I think so. We're starting to round an area that I think we could probably fan out and explore amongst the seven of us.
Liam: I just got my cat back, but if you want an octopus to look on the bottom, you have it.
Taliesin: That's a very good idea.
Travis: That is, actually. If it wouldn't be too much trouble, Caleb, that would be--
Liam: Yeah, I have just enough incense to-- yeah sure, let's make an octopus. Cat-shaped. An octopus-shaped cat.
Marisha: Oh wow. How far does your octopus' connection go for?
Liam: Well, I can tell him to go look and he'll come back to me. I can see through him for--
Marisha: Yeah, but how far is your connection?
Liam: It's a thousand feet. To watch, but he can go and come back, and I trust him. He's Frumpkin. I pull out my book and I set it on the deck and I start working on turning my cat into an octopus.
Sam: Does this mean we don't have to go in the water?
Taliesin: Oh, this means we'll probably have to go in the water.
Sam: What? Why? He's got an octopus.
Liam: An hour later, an octopus pops out, if we wait that long.
Travis: Yeah, I'd be okay with it.
Matt: So you create a Frumpkin octopus.
Liam: Yeah. (sighs) Well, we had one or two days together. Just throw him off.
Matt: (splashing) Frumpkin makes his way in the darkness.
Taliesin: I'm also going to put Bless on the octopus before it.
Matt: Okay. How long does it last?
Taliesin: It's one minute.
Liam: So I'll watch for the first thousand feet, but I assume he goes beyond that, because it's the ocean, so he keeps going down and down and down. I will tell him to look for this wreck, for what we are looking for, and when he finds it to come back and tell me about it.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check for Frumpkin.
Liam: 13.
Matt: Okay. About an hour goes by. Nothing. Roll again.
Liam: 17.
Matt: Frumpkin goes beyond your visual range for a bit. You start getting worried, and then Frumpkin returns and is making his way quickly towards the ship.
Liam: If he's within 1000, we have a connection.
Matt: 100-foot is the connection.
Liam: A hundred? Thank you.
Marisha: Maybe he'll see Dashilla.
Liam: Maybe it's 10,000.
Matt: Technically, the distance doesn't matter for what you can see through his eyes. It's a 100 feet for it to communicate.
Liam: Right, we've established that. I can see indefinitely. That's what we established early in the campaign with the circus, but I can't communicate with him.
Matt: Correct, during that time. So yeah, you watch through Frumpkin's eyes as he makes his way toward the-- finally finding the floor of this ocean. Over this second hour of his search, he catches one shape that is emerging like an obelisk on the bottom of the ocean. Upon getting close enough, you can see it looks to be the front of a wrecked ship, itself damaged and caked in minerals, ocean floor plant life, barnacles. It appears to be a damaged ship.
Sam: Does it have a name?
Liam: I don't hear any of you.
Sam: (shouting) Does it have a name?
Marisha: You're in my ear. Ow!
Sam: Sorry.
Liam: Ooh, he has found the ship. This is a reminder I can't hear any of you. I don't want to disconnect. Don't give me wet willies.
Laura: I give him a wet willie.
Sam: Six wet willies.
Travis: His ears are just dripping saliva.
Matt: (groaning)
Laura: (groaning)
Matt: Okay. Frumpkin does a circle on it, before feeling confident that he's discovered at least something of interest, and then beelines it back to the Squalleater.
Liam: Who's a good boy?! You are the best cat that was ever put on this planet!
Matt: Then Frumpkin is now there at the surface of the water, without really a way getting back into the ship.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Matt: Yeah, there you go, back in your shoulder.
Liam: Oh, come here you. You are the most important member of this team and don't let Beauregard tell you different. Or Nott.
Marisha: Do you ever feel like your relationship with your cat is hindering building stronger relationships with human people?
Sam: I've told him that a lot of times.
Marisha: I feel concerned about you sometimes.
Liam: Yeah, that is so silly, isn't it? Silly, yes it is.
Sam: Tell us what he found!
Liam: He found the boat, Nott. he found the boat. He will lead us to the boat. He found it. He did it.
Sam: That's great.
Travis: That is great news. Does anybody not want to join? Really? You want to stay up here?
Sam: How far down is it?
Liam: It's the bottom of the ocean.
Sam: And how far is that?
Liam: It's thousands of feet.
Laura: No, it wasn't a thousand.
Liam: Thousands of feet.
Matt: Over an hour.
Sam: Ugh, fuck that. No way!
Matt: Like, just barely. From the distance where you are now. It'd be just under a thousand if you were right over, but you're not entirely certain how far. The boat isn't set for that currently.
Liam: You have a method to bring us down there.
Sam: What is this method?
Liam: Describe it to me. I've read a bit. Explain it to the goblin.
Travis: I'll cast a little-- on you and for 24 hours, you can breathe underwater freely.
Liam: That is a whole day.
Sam: But you still have to move through the water, you still have to swim through it--
Travis: Yeah. You could hold onto my shoulders if you wanted to.
Marisha: Could we give ourselves some weights to get us down there?
Matt: You've got weight.
Marisha: Concrete shoes!
Sam: Sounds terrifying.
Travis: Actually, we could take a few of the cannonballs to just--
Marisha: We should have weights that weigh us down there.
Laura: Will the breathing underwater, will that make it to where our ears won't hurt really bad? Because I hear when you go down underwater, your ears hurt really bad.
Travis: That's because of the air. You're going to have to equalize.
Sam: Your ears hurt bad too? Jesus.
Travis: But if you're breathing water, there's no air to expand or contract.
Marisha: Won't you crush under the pressure of the water after a certain point?.
Travis: After a certain depth. There's only one way to find out.
Liam: Now, you people have not read about-- you don't understand magic. It's not like that. I want to try this.
Travis: I know. I do, too. Those that want to join, join me at the rail. I'll jump on and sit on the rail.
Laura: No, wait! We have to get a good night's sleep. We just used all of our spells finding this shit!
Marisha: Oh yeah. That's a good point.
Taliesin: Let's have them. Let's tell the crew what's up. Early in the morning, at first light.
Liam: It's too late. Fjord's in the water, swimming around.
Marisha: Caduceus, you making breakfast?
Taliesin: I'm always making breakfast. I'm not going to even use the weird plants.
Marisha: I'll get up for Caduceus' breakfast.
Taliesin: I've been putting that weird fruit in everyone's food for a week now, by the way. Just so we're clear.
Liam: In minimal amounts, or full dose?
Matt: The stuff that you found at Urukayxl?
Taliesin: Just kidding, but wouldn't that be great?
Matt: That would be amazing
Taliesin: Everyone's just be like, "Wow!"
Liam: There was no battle. There was no battle with Avantika, man!
Travis: We're not on the boat, we're in sand.
Laura: There's no nothing.
Liam: We're sitting in your mom's sitting room right now.
Matt: You look up and on the side, there's the Plank King and Avantika looking at him. He's like, "Where you'd find these people?" (laughter)
Matt: All right, so you guys have another night's rest. As you wake up the next morning, it is raining. There appears to be a small storm making its way in there.
Marisha: Are the fish out? Fish always come out when it rains.
Matt: Well, once you make it in the ocean, you'll find out. Noticeably, Yasha is energized with the coming of the storm. Seems to be in more energetic spirits than you're used to seeing her. You guys complete your meal for breakfast. You gather your supplies. What are you going to do?
Travis: I'll leave Orly in command while we head under. To complete this spell, I'm going to need everyone to hold hands in a circle.
Marisha: I would like to sing a little Kumbaya song and refresh everybody on the Diver's Grave, which is where we are.
Sam: Are you going to sing that Diver's Grave song?
Marisha: (singing) Kumbaya, the cursed woman--
Laura: (singing) Dashilla the Dreadful--
Marisha: (singing) Kumbaya Dashilla, Dashilla with claws that grasp.
Travis: Do we need to have the rights to that song?
Marisha: (singing) Oh god I hope not.
Laura: (singing) And a hungry eye.
Marisha: (singing) She's got a hungry eye and with a lantern light. Dashilla, the cursed woman, treasures in her eyes.
Sam: This is nice.
Travis: Uh-huh. Cool.
Marisha: (singing) Dashilla the cursed.
Liam: I am casting Mage Armor during whatever the fuck this is.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That was good.
Marisha: I'm just saying.
Laura: Did you give us anything for that? Did we get bonuses or did we just get to hear you sing?
Marisha: No, that was Keyleth. Sorry.
Laura: It was literally just Beau singing.
Marisha: Just me trying to do--
Travis: Well, while it's happening, because it was such a good song, I will cast Underwater Breathing on all seven of us.
Marisha: My song was that good.
Matt: All right, all of you now have the capability for the next 24 hours to breathe underwater. Your lungs feel heavier than they do while you breathe air. It's unique. No gills sprout from the side of your neck, per se, but the air itself seems to have a weight to it, and you're like (exhales). It's still breathable air, but the process seems to have changed a bit.
Liam: It's the abyss.
Marisha: In preparation for this, I went and I gathered a few sandbags. Took some burlap, filled them with--
Matt: There's no sand to fill them with out in the ocean, unfortunately.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Travis: Cannonballs?
Marisha: Okay, yeah sure. I got the eight-pounders.
Sam: You have to clear that with me.
Marisha: I brought out a few-- but look, I'm the barrel person.
Matt: As a note, too, when the Squalleater came to port that night, Darktow was resupplied with cannonballs on board. For those who are keeping track, which would be--
Sam: Me!
Matt: You. The ship currently has a cache of 30 cannonballs.
Sam: Nice. How many are you taking?
Travis: Well, we could just use four and have two people hold on to the same cannonball.
Liam: Yeah, that makes sense. Nott and I are sharing one.
Matt: Okay. You maneuver the boat slowly also closer to where Frumpkin saw because when Frumpkin found it, it was at an angle away from you, which is how it was just beyond the range of a thousand feet. Moving over, it's probably close to 700 feet below.
Liam: So Frumpkin is pinwheeling in front of all of us leading the way.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I don't suppose we have 700 feet of rope on this ship, do we?
Laura: Probably not.
Sam: We have an anchor. It can only go down so far, but I don't know how--
Marisha: That's true. How far does the anchor go?
Sam: 200 feet? 100 feet?
Matt: It's not going to go that far.
Liam: No, ships don't go to anchor in the middle of the ocean. They just float.
Travis: If you're ready, take a seat on the rail and I'll hop up and put my butt out towards the sea.
Laura: It's going to be dark down there.
Marisha: Do we have light spells?
Laura: I don't.
Travis: Yasha does.
Taliesin: I do.
Liam: (popping)
Matt: Dancing Lights. You cast Light on?
Taliesin: On my staff.
Matt: Yasha casts Light on her sword, the Magician's Judge.
Sam: I need a minute!
Travis: You need a minute?
Sam: I'm going to drink heavily.
Matt: To the point where you're intoxicated?
Sam: To the point of intoxication.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's important because I switched the Transmuter's Stone away from darkvision, so I cannot see in low light, so it's got to be guiding lights for me.
Laura: I'm going to take Sprinkle out of my hood--
Travis: Ah, smart.
Marisha: Oh, buddy.
Matt: This poor little-- it's better over the days that it's been able to spend with you since Darktow, but this ferret's been through quite a few experiences.
Laura: You're like a super ferret. You're like the strongest little animal I've ever seen. I mean, really.
Matt: (ferret chattering) Then he curls up. He hears a loud noise (startled chittering).
Taliesin: Scarred for life.
Travis: He's just fucked.
Laura: Orly?
Marisha: He's a rescue.
Matt: "Hmm?" I can't remember which eye it is anymore. I'll have to go check. "Mmm?"
Laura: Do you like weasels?
Sam: That's a weird opener.
Taliesin: It never ends well. There's no right answer to that question.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: I have a weasel and I don't want to take him underwater.
Taliesin: Water weasel.
Matt: You watch as Orly's head retracts into the shell slightly with this look of--
Laura: Orly.
Matt: Marius steps up and goes like, "I'm happy to look after him. Actually been quite a while since I've seen a pet."
Marisha: Wait. Who said that?
Sam: Marius LePual.
Matt: Marius LePual.
Matt: Who you've dragged all the way from Nicodranas--
Travis: But he's got a good tan now and some scars, his clothes are kind of fucked up.
Laura: He's like Guy Threepwood now.
Matt: He does look a little more ocean-wearied. As prim and proper and put together as Marius was at Nicodranas, he's definitely rocking more of a Pirates of Penzance thing now.
Liam: He went from level two to three. Doing good.
Laura: You'll take good care of him?
Matt: "Of course!"
Laura: If you don't, I will know and I will give you a tattoo. If you do take good care of him, though, I will give you a better tattoo.
Matt: "Are those the only options?"
Laura: I mean, if you want.
Matt: "Okay. Hello-- oh!" (nervous laughter)
Laura: He likes to eat fruit. He likes to eat cheese. He likes to eat bugs.
Matt: "Right."
Sam: I think we only have the one food that you've been creating on the ship.
Laura: He likes it if you talk to him.
Taliesin: We have bugs and cheese.
Laura: Yeah, we got bugs and cheese.
Matt: "Okay. Well, come. Let's get you some cheese and-- oh, that's my hand you're peeing in, okay."
Taliesin: We always got bugs and cheese, man.
Matt: He carries him off. All right, you gather your supplies, you gather your cannonballs.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Travis: On the count of three, when you're ready, you'll lean backwards off the rail and fall into the water.
Laura: On the count of three, when you're ready.
Matt: As it stands, the cannonballs are smooth, solid metal. How are you bringing them down with you?
Taliesin: There's a couple of options here.
Laura: We're going to hold on to the sides.
Taliesin: Well, we want to be able to carry them so if we have some small bags maybe?
Marisha: Like rope or chain? Oh! Yeah.
Taliesin: We can just put them in a bag that we can hold.
Matt: That can be done. You do have a few sacks.
Liam: They're iron, right? I would say that with Nott piggybacking, Caleb would take his dagger and transmute it into iron to meld with the cannonball and grip it that way.
Travis: Ooh, make a little handle.
Matt: I'll allow it, yeah.
Liam: Thanks.
Matt: As you place the dagger against it, there's a brief moment where the dagger seems to shift energy and you slip it inside of it and at that point, the handle is now solid with the cannonball, so one cannonball has a handle. Another one, a sack around it. Actually, a few of them you can put sacks around it, so--
Travis: You want to share a cannonball, Jester?
Laura: Sure, Fjord.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Cad, you and me? What's Yasha doing, is she coming with us or is she invigorated by the storm?
Travis: She gets her own cannonball because she's--
Matt: Yeah, she's coming with you.
Travis: Yeah, she's just like that. Just holding it like a beast.
Liam: Palming it.
Marisha: Yeah. Globetrotters.
Travis: Ready? One, two, three.
Laura: Oh god!
Sam: (screaming)
Matt: You splash and break the surface of the ocean. As you all begin to sink slowly beneath the waves, the light begins to get darker and darker the further down you pass. The shades of green-blue begin to turn to a deep green-brown, and even that light begins to fade, just having the few points of light that you are bringing along with yourselves towards the bottom of the ocean.
Travis: I try to catch Nott. How is she doing?
Sam: Eyes totally closed.
Travis: Are you breathing well? I give her a--
Matt: Nott has not taken a breath yet, actually.
Travis: International sign for breathe.
Matt: You get to a point, Nott, where your lungs hurt so much you cannot help but breathe in, and there is a moment of panic as suddenly water rushes into your lungs and the nightmare you've had many times kicks in.
Travis: Actually, that means go down.
Sam: Shit.
Matt: It takes a little bit to adjust and anxiety is still spiked in you, but you begin to find yourself breathing water in and out-- like thicker air, but still air-- and it's more comfortable than you expected.
Laura: Can we talk down here?
Matt: You can.
Laura: We can?
Matt: It doesn't have the same volume you do above water, which means you can cast spells underwater without issue.
Liam: We can?
Matt: Yes, same as you had before. It carries vibration and sound travels far, but it loses enunciation at longer distances, but you can hear voices longer.
Liam: There are four globules of light slowly circling around.
Sam: (gurgling) When we get back to the surface, I will kill you.
Marisha: That was pretty good, though.
Matt: Oh, this is going to be awful.
Travis: (gurgling) Well listen, Nott, as long as we're down here--
Liam: Cannot do that joke anymore. That joke has past.
Matt: Your feet find the bottom of the ocean after minutes. Ten minutes. Who knows how much time has past? It seemed longer than you expected until you eventually you hit the bottom of the ocean.
Marisha: Look up. What do I see?
Matt: You see the faint bit of light above where it marks where the sunlight is hitting the waves, but it's an impossible distance from you from this perspective. There are heavy, slowly shifting arms, waving tassels of kelp and sea vegetation slightly drifting and moving with every faint bit of water that gets maneuvered through with each wave and push as it goes, and you can feel it move you a few inches and you have to readjust as each one pushes through.
Laura: It's like another world.
Matt: You realize there shouldn't be waves this deep necessarily.
Marisha: Where are they coming from?
Matt: You glance over and watch as a large creature is not that far away from you.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Taliesin: I dim the light.
Liam: Can't see anymore.
Matt: You hear a faint (whale singing) and glance over the left. You can see a whale making its way through the water about 50, 60 feet from you.
Liam: I can't see shit.
Matt: Not with a--
Marisha: I put my goggles on by the way--
Liam: You're good. I'm blind and are you blind?
Matt: He still has the light. You can still see; Caduceus and Yasha still have the light on their weapons.
Taliesin: My weapon glows but I did snuff it down. I was waiting until we knew that we were okay. I move my light over to him.
Matt: The whale continues on, slowly moving, not really acknowledging your presence. You can see two other smaller whales alongside it.
Travis: Aww, baby calves.
Taliesin: Hey. Technically they can understand me.
Matt: Everyone make an investigation check. This will be perception. Underwater, perception.
Sam: Disadvantage!
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Natural one.
Travis: 19.
Liam: Nine.
Sam: Four.
Laura: 14.
Taliesin: At disadvantage?
Sam: No. Just me.
Taliesin: Oh, 16.
Matt: Roll for Yasha as well.
Travis: Five for her.
Matt: Oof. All right, overall party  not so great. It takes you a little while, about two to three hours of searching the bottom of the ocean. You're starting to get a little hungry again from all the strenuous activity of moving and dragging these cannonballs with you to keep you weighted down so you can step across the surface. You come past some deep sea corals and beautiful colorful visions and schools of fish scooting and coasting around. At one point, they swarm past you, and you feel them tickling past your torso before they skitter past. Eventually, this lift begins to descend into a small bowl or at least a point where the shelf begins to head in a downward direction at a decline. Within the next 15 or so minutes of traveling in that direction, you see the outline of a familiar ship.
Travis: I push forward towards it. Point and start to swim.
Matt: All right. As you all gather in behind Fjord making your way in the direction of this long forgotten shipwreck, we'll pick it up there next week. (groaning)
Matt: You'll find out next week!
Sam: Oh my god, Matt.
Marisha: What a game!
Travis: What a game!
Matt: That was a good session, guys.
Liam: One of the best ever. So many great games!
Matt: That went some interesting places. There's a number of scenarios that didn't happen.
Travis: There was a number of scenarios that didn't happen?
Sam: I feel like there was so much more on the island that we did not--
Matt: There's a lot more on that island.
Sam: There's Allison, there was shit alleys, and there was all kinds of fun stuff.
Taliesin: Just because we're banished doesn't mean we're never going back.
Marisha: We keep pissing off the towns.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm so sorry. Like a cop said "you're trespassing" and now we're just going to never trespass again?
Travis: Well said.
Matt: Yes, we're not because we're law abiding citizens.
Marisha: I was going to say, when you go into a convenience store and it's got the "Have you seen this person?"
Liam: This campaign is a social experiment.
Matt: Oh yeah. This has gone really interesting, fun places. Well, thank you guys. I'm excited to pick this up next week at the shipwreck. Thank you guys for tuning in. Yeah, I missed this-- two weeks off and suddenly--
Liam: All the dead.
Taliesin: We were freaking out all for two weeks straight.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys had some good, solid plans.
Marisha: Our plan was okay.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That was entirely worth the amount of data it took up on my phone.
Liam: It worked.
Travis: I think all anyone asked is for some slight improvements in our planning over the years. Slight improvements.
Liam: Yeah, it worked.
Matt: Man, most of D&D is about plans that go fucking tits up the minute you try and talk about it. Everyone is like, "Oh, they planned so terribly." Every D&D game, everyone plans terribly. Sometimes plans go great, and those are the ones you remember when you compare it to other people. "Oh, we're great planners. Remember that two times over the past 18 years we played where our plans went great? Those are the times we'll always bring up and judging other people's plans." Yeah, everyone has some good plans every now and then. More often than not, plans go pretty shitty and that's fun. Anyway, thank you all for coming and watching along with us after the two week break. Thank you D&D Beyond for being our amazing friends and sponsors. We'll see you in a week and remember we love you all--
Liam: (creepy voice) Is it Thursday yet? (growling)
Marisha: You did this.
Sam: Yeah, I did.
Marisha: This is you.
Sam: Sorry.
Liam: I'm so upset. (normal voice) Take it away, Matt.
Matt: Is it Thursday yet? Good night, everybody. (laughter) [music]

[END OF EPISODE]